
# Janurary 1,2: Five Healthy Resolutions You Won't Regret Making
* discount (n./v.)
Members get a 15% discount.
They are often available at a discount.
Governments should never discount the possibility of future water shortages.
The notion proposed by the previous CEO has been discounted.

* revolve (v.)
  revolve around
Ever since Sandy got married, her whole life has revolved around her husband.
The Moon revolves around the Earth.

* loss (n.), lose (v.)
  lost, loose
weight loss
lose weight

* after
day after day
year after year
time after time

* start off on the right(wrong) foot with... (v.)
Start off on the right foot with my new job, I first solved an important problem in our system.

* interval (n.)
The interval between the two conflicts was only two weeks.
The alarm sounds at 10-seconds intervals when it's activated.
Many people got something to drink during the interval at the opera.

* tweak (n./v.)
We still have to make some tweaks before finalizing our report.
After just a few tweaks by the designer, the whole house looks totally different.
The project needs some tweaking.

* the great thing about... (n.)
The great thing about getting older is that you have more experiences to share with other people.
A lot of people don't like the idea of getting older.
But the great thing about getting older is that you can share your advice with younger people.

* to invest in... (v.)
If you want to play the piano, I think you should invest in a good piano or at least a keyboard, to practice in.
If you want to go running, you're going to have to invest in some good shoes.

* multitasking (n.)
The secretary's incredible multitasking impressed me a lot.
The multitasking software is a great buy because you don't have to buy other software.

* metabolic (adj.)
  metabolism (n.)
A low metabolic rate is one of the reasons people are overweight.
Cold temperatures slow down your body's metabolism.

* a mile a minute (pretty fast) (adv.)
  go the extra mile (more effort)
  give someone an inch and he'll take a mile
  smiles (s...s)

* to be in the moment (n.)
Don't think the next day, be in the moment.
You should be in the moment, not thinking about something else right now.

* up to...
  to up (v.)
I try to up the number of jumps I do with a jump rope.

* curb (v./n.)
Jack needs to learn how to curb his temper.
The new policy successfully curbed the inflation.
Eric is trying to put a curb on his habit of overspending.

* potential (adj./n.)
The potential risks of this investment need to be carefully evaluated.
Frank gets in touch with his potential customers frequently.
The girl has great potential as a singer.

* out in the open
The medical service had advised us to keep it a secret, but we wanted it in the open.
By now the whole affair was in the open.
She never let her dislike for him come out into the open.

* adv. clause + adj. clause
  ... to do... that...
But there are healthy things you can do to change your life that don't revolve around numbers on a scale.
There are so many works you can do to help the teams that don't need to take long time.

* Not (-ing)... But...
Not discounting the benefis of exercise, but you should do it scientfically.

* adj. clause: ...that...
You must make the decision by yourself that could affect your career in the future.

* Which/What... do you think...?
Which of the resolutions in the article do you think would be most valuable to your life? Why?
Do you think which of the resolutions in the article would be most valuable to your life? Why?
What a reason in the event do you think could be the keypoint?
Which person do you think can solve this problem?


# Janurary 4,5: Life Lessons From Nature
* Questions:
How do geese work together?
What can we learn from geese?

* amuse (v.)
  amusing (adj.)
  amusement (n.)
He made funny faces to amuse the children.
The thought seemed to amuse him.
Their antics never fail to amuse.
The movie was silly but still amusing.
The new amusement park is very crowded on the weekends.

* apparent (adj.)
  apparently (adv.)
The presence of extraordinary talent was apparent when this pop star was very young.
Fiona quit her job for no apparent reason.
Apparently, the company has to file for bankruptcy.

* flock (n.)
The shepherd takes care of a big flock of sheep.
Flocks of geese were feeding on the riverbank.
Flocks of fans waited outside the hotel to see their idol.

* in the wild (adv.)
There are two deers in the wild.
It was so cool seeing these deer in the wild.

* teamwork (n.)
The basketball team demonstrated great teamwork throughout the game.
If we want to win the game, we must have great teamwork.

* formation (n.)
The cheerleaders stepped into a V-formation at the end of their performance.
The film explains the formation of diamonds.

* enthusiasm (n.)
We went along to the local diving club, full of enthusiasm.
He never had much enthusiasm for work.

* flap (v./n.)
  flapped / flapping
The bird flapped its wings and flew to another tree.
The flag is flapping in the air.
Grey sheets flapped on the clothes line.
After a few flaps of its wings, the bird flew far away.
Nothing to be heard but the soft flap of a silk banner.

* to go through life (v.)
Some people go through life just worrying about everything.
I want to go through life with my lover.

* honk (v./n.)
The male goose honked to get the females' attention.
The bus driver honked to warn the motorcyclist in front of him.
The honks of the geese can be heard hundreds of feet away.

* communicate (v.)
  communication (n.)
We communicated mostly by e-mail.
People use more than words when they communicate with each other.
They successfully communicate their knowledge to others.
By this age, most children have begun to communicate verbally.
Newspapers are an important way of communicating information.
Good communication is vital in a large organization.

* to encourage...to... (v.)
The local authorities reduced the interest last month to encourage more companies to invest in.

* current (n./adj.)
They swam against the current and finally reached the shore.
The design of the wings can help reduce the impact of the air current.
The company's current situation is worse than ever.

* Keep up the good work! (v.)
Keep up the good work! You are doing a great job.

* take turns (v.)
We can take turns driving.
You're going to take turns on the computer.

* actions speak louder than words
  Do as I say, not as I do
  monkey see, monkey do

* gaggle (n.) /ˈɡæɡəl/
  a gaggle of 
The gaggle got so excited when the farmer started feeding them.
These girls were talking so loud, they sounded like a gaggle of geese.
A gaggle of kids passed us by, laughing and jumping.

* imitate (v.)
Her style of painting has been imitated by other artists.

* burden (n./v.)
Most parents don't feel that parenting is a big burden.
Buying a house is a great financial burden for us now.
I don't want to burden you with my marital problems.

* set a good example (v.)
As the boss of our company, you need to set a good example all the time to the followers.

* to pass on to... (v.)
     pass on sth to someone
Billy passed on several of his bad habits to his children.
We should not pass on some negative emotions to our staff.

* whether... or..., (still)...
Whether the weather is hot or cold, we will still go out.
Whether or not you come with me, I'll still go on my trip.
Whether we leave tomorrow or the next day, you still need to pack.

* When..., A... and B...
When they had arrived in the office, Claire went to the meeting and Bryan began working.

* By sharing..., ...can do... (adv. clause)
  Based on..., ...can do...  (adj. clause)
By sharing the experiences, we can finish this project.
Based on the elaborate plan, we can beat our competitors.

* When..., if..., it might..., but if..., it will do...
When you live in this country, if you are hypocrisy, you will live very happy, but if you are kind and integrity, you will live with too many struggles.


# Janurary 6: Wash your hands
* Questions:
Why wash your hands?
When should you wash your hands?

* observer (n.)
  observe (v.)
A team of professional observers will be assigned to monitor the R&D department.
Observers said the robbers took the old lady's purse and got into a van.
Scientists have observed a drop in ozone levels over the Antarctic.
I want you to observe all the details.

* cellphone (n.)
  cellular
  cell
  mobile phone
  mobile
Mike is talking on his cellphone.

* diaper (n.)
I changed her diaper.

* to dip into... (v.)
  dipped / dipping
So when you dip into your pocket, what are you reaching in to get?
You can dip your hands into a bag of chips.

* chopped up (v.)
You can chop up onions, other vegetables, carrots, celery, cucumbers, and even peppers.

* washing one's hands of someone/something
  figurative (not related to)

* lethal (adj.)
The police found lethal weapons in the suspect's garage.
The spread of the lethal disease was finally curbed because of the invention of the vaccine.

* germ (n.)
  virus (n.): smaller than germ
This tiny germ is the cause of this dangerous disease.
This germ is found in all the patients who were sharing the same room.
The flu virus can be spread through the air.

* crawling with... (v.)
I can see the trash bag is crawling with ants and bugs.

* hand sanitizer
If you don't have soap, you can use a hand sanitizer to wash your hands.

* ... but not...
When a celebrity acquire success, you can only see his achievement, but not what the hard effort he paid before.

* may have done..., but not...
You may have learned English for a long time, but not using the right method.


# Janurary 7~9: The Scandinavian Peninsula
* jut (v.)
  jutted/jutting
You can see the pier jutting out in the sea from a long distance.
He jutted out his chin proudly when he returned to his hometown with the trophy.

* resort (n.)
The couple spent their honeymoon in a beautiful resort in Bali.
All the ski resorts in Aspen are always fully booked in winters.

* variety (n.)
  a variety of
The girls come from a variety of different backgrounds.
Susan's idea of freedom was to have variety in her life style.
The music itself has so much variety.

* off the coast of...
Well, it juts off the coast of northern Europe.
Catalina Island is a small island off the coast of California.
Taiwan is a small island off the coast of China mainland.

* dotted (adj.)
  dot (n.)
It's dotted with ski resorts.
The night sky is dotted with lots of shining stars.
Soon they were only dots above the hard line of the horizon.

* typically (adv.)
  usually
Typically she's on time but she's a little bit late right now.
Typically I like to arrive at the office five minutes early because if I get there like right on time I'm typically going to be late.

* Arctic Circle (n.)
The scientists established a camp in the Arctic Circle to record the weather changes.
Few animals can survive in the low temperatures in the Arctic Circle.

* expertise (n.)
The position requires expertise in computer programming.
We were amazed by the expertise of this humble, small-town car mechanic.

* Arctic vs. Antarctic
             Antarctica
I know a lot of people don't live in Antarctica, do they?

* umlaut
Häagen Dazs

* geographical (adj.)
  geography (n.)
The fort's geographical position makes it very hard to attack.
The wildebeests have a wide geographical distribution in East Africa.
Wilson is majoring in geography in college.

* stretch (v./n.)
  a stretch of...
The procession stretched for several miles.
a beautiful stretch of countryside

* pristine (adj.)
The national park is well preserved to maintain its pristine beauty.
The clear, pristine lake is the favorite of many photographers.

* cruise (n./v.)
I'd love to go on a round-the-world cruise.
They met on a cruise.
a cruise along the coast
She is on holiday, cruising in the Mediterranean.

* striking (adj.) : something beautiful
She was tall and very striking.
That hat looks very striking.
The library is a striking example of excellent architecture.
You are wearing a very striking dress.

* stunning (adj.) : a show, an event, a dress
You look absolutely stunning in that dress.
Wow. You put on quite a stunning performance.
The sunset was stunning last night.

* aurora borealis (n.)
  aurora australis : southern lights
The calendar featuring photos of the different aurora borealis is very popular.

* streak (n./v.)
The boy's face was covered with streaks of sand after he was playing in the sandbox for hours.
The woman wore a hat to cover her grey streaks.
The comet streaked across the sky.

* array (n.)
A sparkling array of celebrities showed up at the charity concert.
The restaurant offers a splendid array of fresh seafood.
An array of vitamins was displayed on their kitchen counter.
An array of beverages was displayed on their sales counter.
We made an effective array of measures to solve this problem.

* plunder (v.)
The troops burnt and plundered the city mercilessly.
The previous accountant has been plundering the funds of the company for years.
Those who want to plunder our properties must be arrested.

* as well as
I know because it's cool to learn about the history of the Scandinavian Peninsula as well as see a little bit more of those northern lights.
She is a talented musician as well as being a photographer.
I do love music as well as sports.

* a vast array of...
The queen has a vast array of dresses in her closet.
Typically, there has a vast array of delicious food in New Year's celebration.
There is a vast array of kinds of cars to be choosen.

* warrior (n.)
The warriors have been ready to fight with the enemy.

* aspect of... (n.)
Dealing with people is the most important aspect of my work.
You really should not concern the aspects of her personal life.
A person’s nationality is an important aspect of their identity.
Alcoholism affects all aspects of family life.
Climate and weather affect every aspect of our lives.

* archaeological (adj.)
  archaeology (n.)
The ruins of the city were discovered in an archaeological dig in Greece.
The archaeological site is closed to the public for research.
There have ever been lots of archaeological discover in this region.

* settlement (n.)
  settle (v.)
The habor city used to be a busy trading settlement for the British.
A Spanish settlement was discovered on this island.
The village was the first settlement for fishing in this region.
They agreed to try to settle their dispute by negotiation.
Those two nations agreed to settle their economic problems through negotiation.

* abound (v.)
  abound in
  abound with
Good fish abound in the North Sea.
I deem there are lots of fun and games abound in the winter camp.
That meadows abound with lots of beautiful flowers and wildlife.
Adventures abound in Scandinavia, so get ready to explore!
This country abounds in coronavirus, so get ready to escape!
Travelling in Norway always abounds with exciting and surprising.

* No...(to).. without (-ing)... : emphasize
No play pop music without composing with MIDI.
You can't finish this job without speaking English.

# Janurary 11,12 : Be Creative - On Your Own
* production (n.)
  produce (v.)
The production of the album took a whole year.
The model didn't go into production because it would have been too expensive for consumers.
The production of this kind of song is not easy using the MIDI program.
The musical was produced on a very limited budget.
By using the MIDI program, pop music songs can produce a little bit more easily.

* publication (n.)
  publish (v.)
Our latest publication for fitness enthusiasts is quite popular.
The publication of my new book was not smooth sailing.
The book was translated into English for publication.
His poems will be published next month.

* innovative (adj.)
  innovation (n.)
Your idea of this product is pretty innovative.
Are you an innovative person?
Mathematical astronomy was the great innovation by the Greeks of the 5th century BC.
She believed she had come up with one of the greatest innovations of modern times.

* at present (adv.)
I'm at present working at a software company.

* oversee: (boss) supervise 
    - oversaw, overseen
  overlook: miss
  oversight (n.)
A team leader was appointed to oversee the project.
The house overlooks the beach.
The detective overlooked an important clue and the suspect was released.
The mistake was due to an unfortunate oversight on my part.
That our oversights resulting in the system crashed.
I assure you that this was purely an oversight on my part.
William was angered and embarrassed by his oversight.

* smooth sailing (n.)
In the beginning, Stuart's business was not smooth sailing.
The movie is a great success, but it wasn't all smooth sailing during the filming.
As far as I'm concerned, learning English is not smooth sailing.

* adorable (adj.)
  adore (v.)
The puppy is so adorable. I want to take it home.
Mathew has three adorable kids, one boy, and two girls.
I adore my little nephew. He's only two years old.

* to make progress (v.)
I believe I can make progress in English by learning Studio Classroom every day.
Claire, you have made a lot of progress on your banana bread.

* to come up with... (v.)
I've come up with a great idea.
Have you come up with a good plan?
We need to come up with an effective solution of this problem.

* sloth (n.)
My grandfather drives as slow as a sloth.

* run something by someone (v.)
About next year's budget, can I run it by you when you're free?
I like your idea, but I still have to run it by my boss.
I feel you need to run this plan by the CEO.
I think you should run your ideas by the boss first.

* Q + adv clause
What did you think of when you first saw her?
What did you think of when you live abroad?
What did you think of when you win the game?
What did you think of when you were deceived?
What will you do when you win a prize in a lottery?
How would you do when you are lost?

* convince (v.)
    - convince sb to do
    - convince sb of sth
  convincing (adj.) : convincing evidence
Nathan tried to convince his dad to buy him a car.
You need to convince your interviewers of your enthusiasm and capability.
You can not convince me of your idea.

* identical (adj.)
Nearly all the houses were identical.
I have three pairs of identical black pants.
Hey, our shirts are identical.
You do not look identical to Brad Pitt!
The twins look identical.
I must have seen the identical symbol before.

* rip-off (n.)
These rip-off purses are only one-tenth the price of the real thing.
This pop singer's latest hit turned out to be a rip-off.
The sky-high parking fee downtown is a total rip-off.
I think that your new sneaker is a rip-off.

* sue (v.)
If the builders don’t fulfil their side of the contract, we’ll sue.
I'll sue the firm for breach the contract.

* modify (v.)
  modification (n.)
The phone is modified with several new features.
Ellen's professor asked her to modify the last part of her report.
The boss told us that we must modify our design of the product.
The modification of the speech might take a while.

* inspiration for... (n.)
Our apple-picking adventure gave me the inspiration for my book.
Some stunning clouds what I saw yesterday gave me the inspiration for my drawing.

* give... another chance (v.)
We should give her another chance to sing this song.

* inquire (v.)
  inquire about
She inquired the conductor about the concert times.
We should inquire some questions about travel.

* Doesn't...? / Shouldn't...?
Doesn't she ask me about driving to the airport?
Don't you play games all the time?
Don't you have enough creativity come up with your own ideas?
Shouldn't you be careful that guy?
Can't you turn the volume down?

* instead of -ing ...
I wish you should be a leader instead of being a follower.


# Janurary 13,14 : A Crash Course in Winter Sports
* familiar (adj.)
  familiar with...
There were only a few familiar faces at the party.
I'm not familiar with these young movie stars.
Patrick is quite familiar with this computer system because he's been working here many years.
She looks so familiar, but I can't remember who she is.

* transportation (n.)
The school can be easily accessed by public transportation.
The transportation and accommodation fees are included in the tour package.
We can use trains for our transportation.
As COVID-19 spreads across all this country, we can't take public transportation.

* crash course (n.)
I've just learned software development in a crash course which is three weeks.

* to make... possible
The Internet makes research possible.
The organization makes the event possible.
What she did made the negotiation possible.

* skate (v.)
  skating
My sister slipped and fell onto the ice while skating.

* replacement (n.)
Audrey is absent today. We need to find a replacement right now.
Tim came to this company in replacement of the previous manager.
Soda beverages can be the replacement of beer.

* unfamiliar (adj.)
  unfamiliar with...
This man seems unfamiliar to me.
Alfred is good at adjusting to an unfamiliar enviornment.
When Susan first moved to Japan, she was quite unfamiliar with the local culture.

* Depending on...
Depending on the area, prices for houses will vary a lot.
Depending on the personal characteristic, hobbies for everyone will vary a lot.

* widely accepted
That was a widely accepted belief.

* to exchange... for...
Maybe we should held the ceremony to exchange ourdoor for indoor.

* slippery (adj.)
The roads are quite slippery after the rain. You'd better drive slowly.
Pam fell on the slippery tile floor in her bathroom.
This con man is too slippery; you can't get any truth from him.
The hall way is slippery after cleaning.

* ski (n./v.)
The professional skis are made of special material so they are lighter and faster.
The ski resort is closed due to bad weather.
Sean skies every winter.

* to dominate
Money totally dominate the nation's culture.

* simile (n.) (like / as)
busy as a bee
sick as a dog
strong as an ox
blind as a bat
quiet as a mouse
proud as a peacock
stubborn as a mule

* on display
The aboriginal costumes were on display at the history museum.
There are lots of vases on display in museum.

* allow for...
  allow...to...
Our new system will allow for more efficient use of resources.
How much time would you allow for the trip?
Allowing for inflation, the cost of the project will be $2 million.
The children are not allowed to watch violent TV programmes.
He won't allow himself to fail.

* athlete (n.)
  athletic (adj.)
Henry determined to become a professional athlete.
A good athlete must have a strong will and be self-disciplined.
Jonah got the scolarship because of his athletic ability.

* artistic (adj.)
Nina's impeccable skills and artistic talent made her a top designer at a very young age.
an artistic furniture arrangement
Bryan is so artistic.

* to grow
  growing tired (becoming tired)
I think of a growing boy like my brother.
I've lived in this city for so long, I'm just growing sick of it.

* no matter...
no matter what happened
Let's hop on the next train no matter where it's going.

* shovel (n./v.)
workmen with picks and shovels
He has to get out and shovel snow.

* All... are/were/have...
All the people have been taken their temperature before entering the building.
All that vaccine's advantages and disadvantages are on display in the result.


# Janurary 15,16 : The European Union
* shambles (n.)
  shamble (n./v.)
The whole town was in shambles after the hurricane.
The wounded man shambled toward a nearby house to call for help.
* in a shambles
Monica's life was in a shambles after her divorce.
The classroom was in a shambles after the teacher left.

* rivalry (n.)
  rival (n.)
There is a fierce rivalry among my colleagues for the position.
The rivalry between cars dealers in this area grew intense.
sibling rivalry
This gives the company a competitive advantage over its rivals.
We must surpass other rivals.

* beyond (prep.)
Beyond the river, cattle were grazing.
The ban has been extended beyond 2003.
They heard footsteps in the main room, beyond a door.
Their five-year relationship was strained beyond breaking point.
It seems to me he's beyond caring about what anybody does.

* oftentimes (adv.)
Oftentimes I have to wait more than 20 minutes for a bus.
Oftentimes, our system crashes in the morning.

* longstanding (adj.)
  OPP: short-lived (adj.)
So this longstanding enmity ended when Romeo and Juliet took their lives.
David and Jonathan had a longstanding friendship.
The longstanding conflict between these two nations makes their economic situation getting worse.
Our happiness was short-lived.
It was a very short-lived government.

* in a nutshell (adv.)
To put it in a nutshell, we're bankrupt.
Okay, that’s our proposal in a nutshell. Any questions?

* comprise (v.) : include (1 comprise n)
  compose (v.) : consist of ( n compose 1)
The planning committee for the charity organization comprises 12 members.
The curriculum comprises many core subjects.
Africa-Americans comprise 50% of our staff.
Ten men compose the committee.
China comprises 56 ethnic groups. //ˈeθnɪk//
There are 56 ethnic groups compose China.

* merge (v.)
  merge with
  merger (n.)
The company will be merged with a big corporation next quarter.
The cars on the ramp speeded up to merge onto the freeway.
The merger caused hundreds of people to lose their jobs.

* in order to (adv.)
I sold my sofa in order to make more room for my new drum set.
I've been learning English every day in order to go abroad to work.

* standard of living (n.)
Do you think they have a high standard of living?

* pool (n./v.)
to pool their production of...
revenue pool
carpool (ride sharing)
carpool lane
HOV lane (high occupancy vehicle lane)

* pool (n./v.)
Investors agreed to pool their resources to develop the property.
The students worked together, pooling their knowledge.
We pooled ideas and information.

* well-being (n.)
Singing can create a sense of wellbeing.
She was filled with a sense of well-being.
We are responsible for the care and well-being of all our patients.

* propose (v.)
What would you propose?
She proposed that the book should be banned.
Are you seriously proposing that we should allow this situation to continue?
I proposed they should give up this project.
Bryan proposed we should prevent this kind of fault happen again.

* treaty (n.)
Both sides have agreed to sign the treaty.
All the members have voted to ratify the treaty.
The treaty was ratified by all the member states.

* currency (n.)
Tourism helps the country to bring in a lot of foreign currency.
There're currency exchanges and ATMs at the arrival hall.
The value of Japan's currency has dropped in the past few years to boost its economy.

* monetary (n.)
The new monetary policy is to protect the stock market from being greatly influenced by foreign investors.
The monetary unit of Taiwan is the New Taiwan Dollar.

* one and the same (adj.)
It turns out that her aunt and my cousin are one and the same.
Your father and my boss are one and the same.

* The Netherlands
North-Holland and South-Holland compose the Netherlands.

* to set up... (v.) : establish
I set up a piano studio.
We all agreed to set up a community.

* adopt (v.)
Philip adopted several new ways of cooking rice while living abroad.
The teacher adopted a new method for classroom management.

* impose (v.)
  impose...on...
The government imposed severe fines for drunk driving, and it really worked.
You can't impose your ideals of life on other people.

* -wide (adj.)
union-wide
office-wide
company-wide
family-wide
There is a citywide parade next week.
It is a company-wide meeting, so you'd better be there.

* consistently (adv.)
  consistent (adj.) /kənˈsɪstənt/
Her work has been of a consistently high standard.
She's not very consistent in the way she treats her children.

* on the horizon (adj.)
There's a new treatment on the horizon to cure this disease.
According to the data, another economic recession is on the horizon.

* to meet... requirements
You have to meet certain requirements to become a member.
She couldn't go on the big roller coast at the amusement park because she didn't meet the height requirement.
They didn't meet those requirements because they aren't well off enough.
To meet the financial requirements to become a member of a club.


# Janurary 18~20 : Synesthesia
* synesthesia (n.)
  synesthete
Synesthesia is widely used in poetry.
The speaker claims he's a synesthete who can hear colors.

* nonsense (n.)
The woman's accusation is absolute nonsense. She's just trying to get the media's attention.
It's such nonsense to say women should only stay home and take care of children.

* might seem like...
What he said might seem like a good idea.

* mix-and-match
mix and match style
You can mix and match courses to suit your requirements.
You can mix and match all you loved tastes together.

* tongue twisters
please pay promptly
Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers

* fixed (adj.)
In the night market, the prices are not fixed.
Do you have the fixed schedule, the things you need to do?

* slap (v./n.)
  slapped / slapping
He would push or slap her once in a while.
I slapped him hard across the face.
I really want to give him a slap.

* gene (n.)
  genetic (adj.)
Both Chelsea, her mother and her daughter are great singers; I figure it must be in their genes.
This genetic disease is easily cured.

* perception (n.)
The medication might affect a patient's visual perception.
During the movie, the hero's perception of reality was temporarily controlled by the villain. //ˈvɪlən//
He is interested in how our perceptions of death affect the way we live.

* wired
Guys and girls are wired differently.

* ...only to...
Only to lose it early on.
You haven't felt pain only to be anaesthetized by drugs.
I got up early this morning only to find out today is Saturday.
I went to the hot springs, very excited, only to realize that I have forgotten my swimsuit.
I went to the store to get some milk only to find out that the store is closed today.

* Yet...
Kelly was a convicted criminal, yet many people admired him.
She does not speak our language and yet she seems to understand what we say.
We've bought some apples and yet found other cheaper ones.

* ...though...
She'll probably say no, though it's worth asking.
Anne was fond of Tim, though he often annoyed her.
I like her, even though she can be annoying at times.

* ..., which may account for... (explain)
The football team didn't train regularly, which may account for their failure.

* react (v.)
How did Wilson react to your idea?
He reacted angrily to the suggestion that he had lied.
They reacted violently to the news.
You reacted exaggeratedly to the scandal.

* dismiss (v.)
George's creative ideas are often dismissed by his conservative boss. //kənˈsɜːrvətɪv//
Just dismiss the thought of quitting from your mind!
Bobby was dismissed from his job because he couldn't cooperate with others.

* despise (v.)
  despicable (adj.)
Sam despises his shyness towards strangers.
The heads of these two sales departments despise each other.
I despise anyone who is cruel to animals.
She despised gossip in any form.
I despise him for his hypocrisy.
It was despicable of him to cheat on his wife.

* ...for fear that...
I didn't tell Mandy about the party for fear that she would spoil the surprise.
Claire would never go outside in the summer for fear that she would get sunburn.

* (not) to be doing... (speculate doing)
Maybe the medicine you took to be relieving your pain.
These toys seem to be distracting children.
This company seems to be developing very well.
The coronavirus appears to be breaking out all over the world.
We considered this bug to be destroying the system.
She said the parade to be processing on the street.
We believe the morality of this country to be changing worse. //məˈræləti//
I guess the police not to be investigating this case.

* to lose track of...
  track (n.)
So don't lose track of your time.
Keep track of your time.
I lose track of my thoughts.
It’s difficult to keep track of all the new discoveries in genetics.
It's so easy to lose track of who's playing who and when.

* reject as...
Gibson rejected the idea as ‘absurd’.

* intrigue (v.)
  intriguing (adj.)
  intrigued (adj.)
Readers are intrigued by the mysterious plots created by this author.
Peter's boss was intrigued by the novelty of Peter's idea.
(The novelty of her new job soon wore off.)
The girl has an intriguing personality that makes you want to know her more.
They are intrigued by her story. (adj.)
He was intrigued by her reaction.

* to be intrigued by
I'm intrigued by that rock singer.

* to intrigue
What intrigues you?
That story really intrigues me.

* psychology (n.)
social/educational/child psychology
cognitive psychology

* neurology (n.)
  neurological (adj.)
The doctor specializes in neurology and is also an excellent surgeon.
Parkinson's disease is a neurological disorder.

* catch (v.)
  caught
  to catch sb's interest/attention
Maybe there's an exhibit that catches your interest there.
I guess that the singer would catch your interest.
She dressed a splendid skirt caught everyone's attention.

* in quite a range of ways
My hobbies in quite a range of ways.

* sensation (n.)
burning/prickling/tingling/pleasant/strange/physical sensation
You might feel burning sensation when you first apply the medicine.
The sensation of nausea also disappeared after her migraine stopped.

* sensitivity (n.) //ˌsensəˈtɪvəti//
Many doctors lack sensitivity when dealing with their patients.

* cognitive (adj.)
The book discusses the stages of cognitive development.
Some of the patient's cognitive functions were damaged because of the brain surgery.
As children grow older, their cognitive processes become sharper.

* to aid... in... (v.)
When I'm learning another language, a dictionary aids me in learning it.
Brandon aided Shelly in fixing up her bathroom.
Your GPS will aid you in travelling.
The new AI technology will aid us in developing the robot.

* the loss of... (n.)
  the loss of money
After his bike accident, Jeffery suffered the loss of memory.
Some people experience the loss of sight as they get older.
The decision they've just made will lead to the loss of investment.

* tend to be... (v.)
The lighter cars tend to be noisy.
The white colour clothes tend to be dirty.
The easy choice tends to be the wrong one.

* being (v.)
The disease breaks out again being the cause of the recession.
Being a journalist, you should report the news according to the fact.

* it's understandable that...
It's understandable that your parents are angry.
It's understandable why they are so stupid.
It's understandable that they want to move house.

* to be known to...
Taking vitamin C regularly is known to prevent colds.
The coronavirus is known to infect easily.

* to determine whether...
The attitude of you about the match is to determine whether you can win.

* acquire (v.)
Children acquire languages more easily than adults.
During the training, the trainees acquired both the basics and actual flying experience.
Kelly acquired a love for fashion while living in Paris.
In our lesson, you can acquire some technology and experience as well.

* fuse (v.)
The composer fused classic music with rock-n-roll in the piece.
East and West fuse in Hong Kong so naturally.
The extreme heat fused all the machines in the factory.
These two languages were fused in the project.
As they heal, the bones will fuse together.
Our different ideas fused into a plan.
fuse wire

* to some effect (adv.)
You need to take this medicine for the treatment to some effect.

* it may not be long before...
  it won't be long before...
It may not be long before the COVID-19 infects people around the world.
It won't be long before we enjoy a review skit.
It may not be long before robots think like human-being.

* the young
  the elderly
The elderly should share their experiences with the young.



# Janurary 21 : World Buskers Festival
* extraordinary (adj.)
It took an extraordinary amount of work.
We've made extraordinary progress as a society in that regard.
It's extraordinary that he managed to sleep through the party.
He has extraordinary basketball skills.
It's extraordinary that she can play piano so well.

* Do you have...? If so, ...
Are you free this weekend? If so, let's go out to the music festival.

* outrageous (adj.)
The singer's outrageous costumes became her trademark.
The actor's outrageous behaviour at the press conference was widely discussed on the Internet.
She always wears outrageous make-up.

* spotlight (n.)
  turn the spotlight on someone or something
  in the spotlight
  limelight, in the limelight
The news report turned the spotlight on the mayor's scandal.
Lillian hates to be in the spotlight.

* comedian (n.)
  comedy (n.)
He started as a stand-up comedian.
Steve Carrell is one of my favourite comedians.
Ricky picked a comedy to watch at the theatre because he wanted to have a good laugh.

* crowd-pleaser
Your new album would be a crowd-pleaser.

* abound (v.)
  abound with...
laughs abound
Seafood abounds during the season.
Rome abounds with tourists all year round.
The article abounds with theories that haven't been proven.
This country abounds with lies.
Well-being abounds when we were traveling around the world.

* reluctantly (adv.)
  reluctant (adj.)
She gave a reluctant smile.
We reluctantly agreed to go with her.
I reluctantly went to the office yesterday.
Claire was reluctant to ask for help.

* There's something for everyone at/in...
We wish that there's something for everyone in our classroom.


# Janurary 22,23 : The Customer
* on one's own
Dina has to take care of her kids on her own because her husband is on a business trip.
I didn't accomplish this project on my own. My team members are all part of it.

* tidy (adj.)
I try to keep the garden tidy.
Having a tidy desk can seem impossible if you have a busy, demanding job.

* restock (v.)
The clerk was busy restocking when I walked into the convenience store.
Mom went to the supermarket because she needed to restock our frige.

* to deal with...
How do you deal with rude people?
I know how to deal with babies when they like me.
But when they start to cry and scream and fuss, I don't know how to deal with them then.

* to wait in line
I was at an amusement park and I had to wait in line for three hours to go on this roller coaster.
We all must wait in line to get on the MRT.

* ring something up (check)
  ring someone up (call)
The cashier rang up each item and told me the total.
I'll ring it up for you in just a second.
I'll ring you up in 15 minutes.

* fashionable (adj.)
fashionable clothes/furniture/ideas
It's becoming fashionable to have long hair again.
These cars are no longer fashionable among the young.

* push past...
He pushed past the crowd and ran away.

* snap
  snapped / snapping
  snap at
Grace snapped at the waiter when he forgot her coffee for the third time.

* to race through one's head
Sometimes ideas race through your head as well.
Before I give a speech, I'll anxious about stuff and thoughts will race through my head.

* behavior (n.)
good/bad behaviour
It is important to reward good behaviour.

* I don't have all day!
Come on, let's go. I don't have all day.

* recognize (v.)
  recognizable (adj.)
  recognizably (adv.)
  recognition (n.)
I didn't recognize the man as my high-school teacher until he talked to me.
If you can recognize your own weaknesses, then it's possible to change them.
Though changed clothes, she still can be recognizable.
They are all recognizably hypocrisy.
You can acquire the recognition through your efforts.

* intimidate (v.)
  intimidating (adj.)
Those bullies tried to intimidate Johnny, but it didn't work.
The workers were intimidated into accepting unreasonable wages.
Hank looks intimidating, but he's very gentle.

* honorifics
Mr. / Mrs. / Miss / Ms. / Mx

* firmly (adv.)
‘I can manage,’ she said firmly.
It is now firmly established as one of the leading brands in the country.
Keep your eyes firmly fixed on the road ahead.

* obviously (adv.)
We’re obviously going to need more help.
Your research has obviously been very thorough.
Obviously, we don't want to spend too much money.

* stare (v.)
  stare at
  gaze (v.)
Stop staring at me! You're making me nervous!
We stood on the beach gazing at the sunset.

* wait on...
Wait on me immediately!
Whenever you're at a restaurant, the waiter will wait on you.

* any minute
The movie will start at any minute.

* applause (n.)
When the winning team returned to their hometown, they were greeted with thunderous applause.
Let's give them a round of applause.

* a round of
I heard a round of laugh in the office.


# Janurary 25,26 : WHAT TO DO WHEN YOUR FITNESS Effort Plateaus
* plateau (v./n.)
Our sales plateaued for three months at the end of last year.
A share in the company plateaued at 141NTD today.
The smartphone market seems to have reached a plateau.

* on the flip side
On the flip side, when you eat less sugar, you would get more healthy.

* regression (n.)
  regress (v.)
Lack of motivation can cause regression in students' learning progress.
Test results showed a major regression in the size of the tumor.
Jessica's physical strength didn't regress as she got older.

* throw in the towel
Don't throw in the towel in learning English.

* to make all the difference
Maybe changing location make all the difference.
Speaking English fluently makes all the difference in my life.

* guarantee (v./n.)
I guarantee you’ll love this film.
Surplus resources alone do not guarantee growth.
He gave me a guarantee that it would never happen again.

* to lay (it) out
If you want to prove your theory, so lay it out for us.

* ramp up
To meet the deadline, our production needs to ramp up.
The quality of our website has to ramp up if we want to stay competitive.
You can ramp up your efforts at your company.

* get back on track
Make sure your discussion is on the right track. We don't have time to waste.
Even though there were some delays, our project should get back on track by this weekend.
You need to get back on track in your English learning.

* come to a halt
The bus came to a halt.
The train came to a halt because there was a tree laid on the track.

* to step out of your comfort zone...
You need to step out of the dilemma.
If you want to learn some new technology, you need to step out of your comfort zone.

* comfort zone (n.)
Eric decided to step out of his comfort zone and start his own business.
Stretching beyond one's comfort zone might be a little scary, but it's also exciting.

* incorporate (v.)
Fusion food incorporates the essence of many exotic cuisines.
This new car incorporates many newly developed safety features.

* push yourself
When you want to give up learning English, you should push yourself.

* ditch (n./v.)
  to ditch...for good
The car went off the road and into a ditch.
I decided to ditch the sofa bed.
Meg and Neil were due to marry, but she ditched him.

* ...for good (permanently)
I don't wish he's gone for good.
Never ditch your dream for good!
The injury may keep him out of football for good.

* take advantege of...
If you live in Taipei, I think you should take advantage of the mountains surrounding the city.

* hit the point (where...)
Raymond has already hit the point where he shouldn't continue working here.
Diane hit the point where she definitely needed to rest.

* recommend (v.)
Many moms recommended this restaurant to me because it is child-friendly.
The doctor recommended that the patient write down his thoughts.

* to follow someone's lead
In the classroom, you should follow your teacher's lead.
He followed his brother's lead, he became a doctor.
Ok, follow my lead...
They're following each other's lead.

* then again...
  (on the other hand)
I love rock music so much. Then again, I love country music as well.

* less of... and more of...
Their performance is less of a skit and more of a report.
This medicine is less of medicine and more of a poison.

* It... to do...
If you have a demanding job, it can become difficult to get up early to learn English every day.

* ...can be doing
Eat an apple every day can be changing your health better.

* Whether... or..., ...can...
Whether I go to work or stay at home, I can feel the disgust of the culture of this country.

* ...with being...
You need to live with being hypocrisy in this country.

* If you do..., you have got to find...
If you are tired of living in this country, you've got to find a chance to go abroad.


# Janurary 27,28: Vaccinations
* vaccinate (v.)
  vaccination (n.)
  vaccine (n.)
I got my dog vaccinated by the vet yesterday.
One possible side effect of the vaccination is a mild fever.
The vaccine against malaria will save millions of lives in Africa.

* bump into (someone)
Chloe bumped into her desk when she got up.
Irene bumped into her ex-boyfriend in a cafe.

* in a hurry
Sandy left the house in a hurry.
Why are you going to the store in such a hurry?

* disease (n.)
She suffers from a rare disease of the brain.
How long have you had the disease?

* take a chance
You take a chance every time you ride with that driver. (dangerous)

* put one at risk
So, when you are driving on the road if you don't buckle your seatbelt, you will put yourself at risk.
If you ride with a bad driver, you will put yourself at risk.

* fatal (adj.)  //ˈfeɪtl//
There's still no cure for this fatal disease.
A fatal shot killed the police officer.
A fatal mistake caused the tragic air trash.

* majority (n.)
  major (adj.)
The majority of our staff lives in this area.
A large majority of the people in this country is against a tax increase.

* once (adv./conj.)
I lived in Yosemite once.
I have a dress that once belonged to my mom.
I went to Singapore once.

* besides (adv./prep.)
We have lots of things in common besides music. (prep.)
I think she has many good qualities besides being very beautiful.
The house was too expensive and too big. Besides, I'd grown fond of our little rented house.

* ...tend to be (adj.+er)...
tend to be easier
tend to be harsher
tend to be more difficult
tend to be more expensive
tend to be further

* autism (n.) //ˈɔːtɪzəm//
  autistic (adj.)
The child suffers from severe autism, and sometimes gets violent toward others.
It's a misconception that every autistic child has a special talent.

* side effect (n.)
Common side effects of the drug may include headaches and muscle pains.

* from what I hear...
From what I hear, the Planetshakers' new album is great.
From what I hear, I should have a trip to Norway.

* You can't believe everything you hear.
Can you believe everything you hear?

* to refuse to...
I know people who refuse to listen to gossip.
Cindy refused to stay at work after hours.
Peter refused to have his hair cut.

* horrible (adj.)
  ...as horrible as...
  horribly (adv.)
The weather has been really horrible all week.
The record sounds horrible.
The coffee tasted horrible.
When trouble comes they behave selfishly and horribly.

* make a comeback
For many years, Larry has been trying to make a comeback, but he never has.
The band made a brilliant comeback with its latest album.

* not only... but also...
She not only wrote the text but also selected the illustrations.
Bryan can not only speak English very well but also develop software efficiently.
The breaking out of COVID-19 again not only makes lots of people lose their jobs but also causes all high schools to suspend classes.

* as a whole
You know, your decision not only affects you, but it also affects the company as a whole.
I like the show as a whole. But I didn't like some of the actors in the show.
The class as a whole did very well on the exam.

* to have doubts
I have my doubts.
I'm beginning to have my doubts that this friend will actually write this book.
I have doubts that this person even exists.

* accurate (adj.)
  accurately (adv.)
Pilots need to have accurate facts to make the right decisions.
Scientists are trying to develop devices that can make accurate predictions about earthquakes.
You need to hit the ball accurately.
We need to accurately locate the fault.

* sensible (adj.)
  It... sensible to do...
It's sensible for you to teach your children to take responsibility for their actions.
It would be sensible to take warm clothes if you're packing for North America.
It's sensible for you to take the offer.
It would be sensible to learn English.

* learn that...
We learned that Amelia thinks vaccinations are a good idea.
We all learn that the disease is fatally dangerous.
I've learned that he is a fraud.

* get someone done
You really get me suffered so many pain.
Many parents always get their children spoiled too much.
We're going to get our pet vaccinated tomorrow.






# October 10,11: Cooling Down Conflict
* Questions
What should you do with conflict?
What is one major cause of conflict?
What do you do when you were faced with conflict?
How do you handle conflict?
What is the cause of conflict?
How do you resolve conflicts?
Do you ever get emotional? Why?

* bound (adj.)
You're bound to feel nervous during your first job interview. It's OK!
This music prodigy is bound for international recognition.

* resolve (v.)
After some thorough discussions, the conflict between the couple got peacefully resolved.
The customer resolved not to press any charges against the company.

* personality clash
Claire and Tony seemed to have a little personality clash.

* cannot / can not
You cannot(can not) escape the conflict.
I can smoke, or I can not smoke. (chose)

* miscommunication
The study focused on the source of miscommunication that frequently occurs between men and women.
I thought the movie was at 8:30. That was a miscommunication.

* misunderstanding
There must have been some misunderstanding. I didn’t order all these books.
I'm not going to hang out with you. That was a misunderstanding.

* banner (n.)
The "Welcome to Class 702!" banner was made by the kids in the class.
Tammy downloaded an app to block the banners on the Internet.
A banner strung across the road read, ‘Welcome home, boys!’

* vapor (n.) /'veipə/
  vaporize (v.)
The vapor released from the factory's chimneys contains harmful substances.
The chemical vapor in the lab caused the several students to feel dizzy and nauseous.
The sun's heat vaporizes the water of the ocean.
The liquid began to vaporize when the temperature reached 85 degrees Celsius.

* bottom line : the amount of money that is a profit or a loss after everything has been calculated
These small promotions were costly and they did nothing to increase his bottom line.
Sales last month failed to add to the company’s bottom line.
The bottom line is that we have to make a decision today.

* to kick the habit
The scheme helps smokers to kick the habit.

* toxic (adj.)
  toxin (n.)
The toxic waste from the nuclear plant must be carefully processed.
The water discharged from the factory is toxic.
Scientists have found an increased buildup of toxins in deep-sea fish in recent years.

* bicker (v.)
  bickering
Even though Josh and Hannah love to bicker over little things, they're truly in love.
Melanie and her sister always bicker about who should do the chores.
I wish you two would stop bickering.
The couple's bickering can go for hours.

* storm into
  storm out of
After the performance, Jeffery stormed into the principle's office.
Gerald stormed out of the house after the conflict.

* ...isn't everthing
Money isn't everything.
Linda, shopping isn't everything.
Success isn't everything.
Family isn't everything.

* moody (adj.)
When I just had a bad day at work, I don't know why I get moody, I get emotional.

* authority (n.)
The clerks do not have the authority to give customers extra discounts.
A competent teacher needs to have the authority to control his or her class.
The locals reported the incident to the authorities.
This provided a pretext for the authorities to cancel the elections.

* intensify (v.)
  intense (adj.)
The tension between the two nations intensified after the incident at the border.
Britain is intensifying its efforts to secure the release of the hostages.
My intense headache went away after I took some painkillers.

* What's going on? / What is happening?
What is going on right now?

* executive decision
I'm making an executive decision.
Speaking of which, should the boss always make the executive decision?

* Thank you.
  I appreciate it. (know the value)


















# October 20: Drone Racing
* What do the pilots have to wear?
  Why is it difficult to watch a drone race?

* goggles n.  goggle v.
Swimming goggles can protect your eyes from water.
The skier wears goggles with prescription lenses.
The kid goggled at me because I was singing in public.

* mount v. n.
The new projector will be mounted on the ceiling of the meeting room.
A CCTV camera was mounted in the elevator.
Mount Everest
Mount Sinai

* to take off
The airplane takes off.
The career / business is taking off.
This sport is really taking off.

* pounding heart
  beating heart
  racing heart
  fluttering heart

* third-person narritive : He/She...
  second-person narritive : You...
  first-person narritive : I...

* modify v.
  modification n.
The newly modified engine is much more powerful than the original one.
My professor told me my thesis still needs a lot of modifications.

* spectator n.
Thousands of spectators cheered at the team's excellent performance.
The police told the spectators gathered around the fire scene to leave.

* to get in on the action
I want to get in on the action.
Come on, get in on the action. (have meal)

* to gain momentum
This campaign is really gaining momentum.
She gave fresh momentum to the campaign.
The sport is taking off, it's gaining momentum.

* noun. + prep. + Object
  prep. : by, of, from, for, about, to, with
- of
I've just changed the disk of my laptop.
- by
You can get good health by exercising every day.
- from
We can predict our profits from training models of the AI system.
- for
I pondered the problem for our future.
- about
You need to learn the rules about the game.
- to
This is my attitude to you.
This is the solution to this problem.
- with
I saw Bob in town with his girlfriend.
Put this bag with the others.



