# P1 Events: Happy New Year
* Questions:
How did you celebrate the New Year?
How was your New Year's?
Was it crowded?
What did you do?
What is your favorite part of the New Year?

* keywords: funny (adj.)
            part (n.)
            nervous (adj.)
            reporter (n.)

* How did you celebrate ...?
How did you celebrate your birthday?
How did you celebrate Mother's Day?

* went to...
I went to a friend's party.
I went to City Park with friends.
We went to a wedding.
We went to a concert.
I went to a movie yesterday.

* Don't be
You look nervous. Don't be!
You look worried. Don't be!
You look angry. Don't be!
Don't be silly!


# P2 Events: Happy New Year
* Questions:
Was this your first New Year's in America, Alex?
What do you usually do there?
What are you doing?
Did you know people in Spain eat 12 grapes for luck?
Is that why you have all of these things?

* keywords: famous (adj.) : famous musician
            musician (n.)
            around (prep.) : around the world
            start (n.) : a new start
            list (n.) : to-do list
            goal (n.)

Jeremy Lin is very famous.
Jay Chou is a great musician.
Mark has friends all around the world.
Get a new start. Try a new hobby.
Write a list of your favorite songs.
This year, my goal is to read 20 books.

* I usually... with...
I usually help people with their English.
I usually eat cake with my coffee.
I usually eat pizza with lots of cheese and pepper.
I usually jog with my dog.
I usually hang out with Claire.

* Maybe one day I can...
Maybe one day I can celebrate New Year's at Taipei 101, too.
Maybe one day I can be a teacher, too.
Maybe one day I can fly an airplane.
Maybe one day I can speak English with my friends.

* around (prep.)
travel around the world
look around a store
walk around a place
walk around the park
search around the house

* People hang A on B.
People hang onions on their door. It symbolizes a new start.
Please hang the picture on the wall.
You can hang it on your phone.
She hung the picture on the wall.

* should do...
We should go see a movie.
We should eat at a fancy restaurant.
We should go to a big game.
We should get jobs.
Let's do it.


# P3
Maybe I can write some thank-you notes, too.
My parents gave my son some Christmas gifts.
Your parents will appreciate that!
Maybe he can draw a picture for them, too.
A card is another nice way to say thank you.
Do you make cards?
I make cards, but I buy cards, too.
A card is a good way to bless someone.

Wow, it's really cold in the office this morning!
I just turned on the heater.
The office will feel warmer soon.
Do you turn the heater off at night?
Yes. The cost of heating in the winter is really high.
If I turn the heater off every night, we can save energy and money.
Well, there's nobody here at night anyway!

It's cold inside and outside today!
The studio will warm up soon.
I can't work when I'm freezing!
I don't like to feel cold.
You probably use your heater a lot at home then!
You can do something to lower your bill.
Turn your heater down when you're away.
That makes sense.
You can keep the temperature low, and just wear more clothes.
Maybe I can buy a small heater.
That will heat only one room, and not my whole apartment.

How was your trip?
It was too short!
But my family was happy to see me.
But you don't look happy.
I made a big mistake when I left for my trip.
What did you do?
I forgot to turn off my heater!
I'm scared to see my bill now.
Try to save extra energy now.
Then maybe your bill won't be so high.
How can I do that?
I have to use the heater.
It's freezing outside!
Well, do you have any windows that face west?
Leave the curtains on those windows open during the day.
Don't leave the windows open during the day.
I left my phone number with several people.
What else should I do?
Curtains help keep out the cold air.
Facemasks help keep out the virus.
Some of my windows have leaks.
Cold air gets in, even when the windows are shut.
Cover those windows with plastic.
Or buy very heavy curtains.
Those will help me save money on my energy bill next month!
There is another thing you can do.
Just keep the temperature low.
It might feel uncomfortable, but you'll save a lot of money!


# P4 Environment: Let's Recycle!
* Questions:
How is your first day going?
Do you recycle?
What things do you recycle?
What are you doing now?
Why do you need to wash them?
Why do we need to wash bottles and cans before recycling them?
Where will you put them?

* keywords: secretary (n.)
            wash (v.)
            separate (v.)
            metal (n.)
            environment (n.)

Mr. Lee's secretary answers his phone.
Please wash the plate. It is dirty.
You can separate the food into two bags.
Those buildings are made of metal.
We should try to help the environment.

* separate...into...
We separate the recycling from trash.
We need to separate the garbage into groups.
We can separate the letters into three piles.
We can separate the students into three groups.
Let's separate our classroom into different areas.

* ...should...more
He should sleep more.
You should exercise more.
I should read more.

* remember to do
  remember doing
I will remember to wash things before I recycle them.
Please remember to buy the tickets today.
I will remember to bring the key.
I remember feeding the dog.
He remembers closing the windows.

* take out (v.)
  OPP: put things in
When you edit the tape you can take out the giggles.
They took out two enemy bombers.
How many teeth did the dentist take out?
You can order food to take out and eat it at home.
I can take out the background from the picture.
We need to take out the bullet from his chest.
You can put some decorations in your house.


# P5 Environment: Let's Recycle!
* Questions:
Do you have a minute?
Can you put them in the recycling bin?
Can you help me?
What do you need help with?
How can I help?
Can you make some signs for the kitchen?
What should they say?
How is it going?

* keywords: protect (v.)
            decrease (v.)
            waste (n.)
            sign (n.)
            trash (n.)

Protect the baby. Don't let him get hurt.
Joanne is happy. Her weight decreased.
Please clean up this waste.
Can you read that sign?
There is a lot of trash on the floor.

* go/come + do
I'll go recycle them now.
I'll go buy one.
I'll go finish it.
You can come see us.
You can go ask her.
They'll come help us.

* What's up?

* need help with something
What do you need help with?
I need help with the computer.
They need help with the exam.
She needs help with practising English.

* waste: can not recycle
  garbage: food, cans...
  trash: paper, plastic...

* must be...
She must be doing a good job.
The new CTO must be Bryan.

* Nobody... was (doing)...
Nobody in the library was studying.
Nobody there was working.
Nobody at the office was recycling.


# P6 HOME: Abby Shops for Furniture
* Q:
What are you reading?
What kind of magazine?
What do you need in the bathroom?
What about in the dining room?
How are the prices?

* kw: bathroom (n.)
      towel (n.)
      table (n.)
      dining room (n.)
      shop (n./v.)

Put the toilet paper in the bathroom.
I'm wet. I need a towel.
The book is on the table.
Eat your dinner in the dining room.
Shop at the new store.

* decorate (v.)
  decorations (n.)
You can decorate your home.
I want to put some decorations at my home.
We usually put on some decorations on holidays.

* towel
  bath towel
  beach towel
  hand towel
  paper towel
  wet towel

* extra
Maybe you need extra help on the homework.
I need extra practise in English every day.

* There are so many... here.
There are so many people here.
There are so many cars here.

* shop (v.)
  shop for sth
I love to shop at Frank's Furniture store.
We'll shop for some new furniture.
I'll shop for my friend's birthday gift.
I love to shop for new books.


# P7 HOME: Abby Shops for Furniture
* Q:
What does a designer do?
Can you give us some design tips?
What other colors can calm you?

* kw: design (v.)
      divide (v.)
      paint (v.)
      gray (adj.) : grey
      artwork (n.)

Can you design my kitchen?
Divide the apples. Give 3 to Joe.
Paint the wall a new color.
It's not white. It's gray.
Some artwork can be expensive!

* That sounds like something...
That sounds like a fun job.
That sounds like a good idea.
He sounds like a great brother.
You sound like your mother!
It sounds great!

* light
If a color is light, it's not dark.
This box is very light.
Turn off your room's lights.
The light colors are very calming.
This jacket is light.
I like light colors.
I had a light lunch.

* What other ... can ... ?
What other people can you invite?
What other movies can we see?
What other songs can you sing?
What other people do you remember?


# P8 eREPORT: Use Good Table Manners
* kw: napkin
      plate
      serve(v.)
      bread
      waiter
      place(v.)

Clean the spill with a napkin.
Put your food on a plate.
Serve the soup in a bowl.
Put butter on your bread.
The waiter serves your food.
Place the box on the table.

Q:
What do you do first?
What do I use this fork for?

* When you first do...
When you first get to school, turn in your homework.
When you first sit down at the table, put the napkin on your lap.
When you first arrive, you don't know anybody.
When I first read the book, I don't like it.
When I first heard that song, I really love it.
When I first saw her, I was really happy.

* Someone is finished doing something.
you are finished eating...
When you are finished exercising, give me a call.
When you are finished cleaning, take a break.
When you are finished working, come join us.

* ... is/are to the... of...
The couch is to the right of the table.
The plate is to the right of the glass.
So, the cupcakes are to the left of the oven.
The cellphone is to the left of the laptop.
The coffee is to the right of the newspaper.
Place the apple to the right of the tea.


# P10 ACTIVITIES: Yo-yos
* kw: yo-yo
      trick
      spin(v.)
      throw(v.)
      air(in the air)

Sam's dog can do tricks.
A yo-yo is my favorite toy.
Look at those car tires spin!
The Earth spins on its axis once every 24 hours.
He can spin a yo-yo pretty well.
Throw me that ball!
Throw the ball into the air.

* Q:
What is that?
How does it work?
Can you do tricks with it?
Can you play with one?
Can you play with a Chinese yo-yo?  

* I had a(n)... when I was...
I had a car when I was in college.
I had an old drum when I was six.
I had a bunny when I was a kid.
I lived in Beijing when I was in college.

* pretty/really good with... (adj.)
Sometimes I say that my brother is really good with cars.
I'm really good with computers.
She's pretty good with paintings.
Bryan is pretty good with songs.

* up and down (adv.)
Jim can make it go up and down.
Prices are going up and down.
The airplane might shake up and down.
The boat bobbed up and down on the water.
You have to go up and down the stairs a lot.
The ball bounces up and down.
The children are jumping up and down.

* take (v.) : need sth...
It takes practice.
It takes time.
It takes a lot of money.
It takes three weeks.
It takes more energy.
It takes more people.


# P11 ACTIVITIES: Yo-yos
* kw: lend (v.) lent
      terrific (adj.)
      couple (n.) : a couple of tricks
      video (n.)
      confident (adj.)

Al lent me a pencil, so I gave it back.
Mary is a terrific soccer player!
Please wait a couple of minutes.
Let's watch this video.
Kate isn't afraid. She's very confident.
I am confident that everything will come out right in time.
The company is confident of success.

* Q:
What's that thing on the desk?
What's the other thing?
How does it work?
Like what?
Can you do any tricks?

* I'm going to ...(verb) to ...(noun)
I'm going to give a gift to my mother.
I'm going to read a story to the children.
Claire is going to show this car to her boyfriend.
I'm going to make a cake to my girlfriend.
I'm going to compose a song to my wife.

* fall (v.) fell
The yo-yo falls on the floor.
Leaves are beginning to fall now.
She fell off a horse yesterday.
My favorite season is fall. (n.)
There are beautiful falls in the mountain.

* do tricks with sth...
He can do tricks with a yo-yo.
He can do tricks with cards.
He can do a lot of tricks with a ball.
She can do tricks with a hat.
I can do tricks with some coins.


# P12 MYSTERY : The Thief and the Coffee
* kw: pour (v.)
      park (v.)
      strange (adj.)
      map (n.)
      lid (n.)
      neighbourhood (n.)
      keep (v.)

Pour me a glass of water, please.
We need to park close to the store.
He's nice, but he wears strange clothes.
I love to look at maps when I travel.
I lost the lid to my cup!
It seemed like a good neighbourhood to raise my children.
I'm not familiar with this neighbourhood.

* Q:
Was the man telling the truth?
What are you holding right now?
Are you lost?
May I see it?
What are you really doing here?
Is your coffee hot?
Why did you do that?

* tell, speak, talk, say
tell the truth
tell a lie
tell a story
To tell a truth, ...
She speaks English well.
I can speak five languages.
I'll talk to her later.
She said they were very impressed.

* keep (v.)
I keep my coffee in a bottle like that.
It keeps things warm for hours.
We keep the clothes in a box.
They keep the room very clean.

* The man ... when I did...
The man laughed when I told a joke.
The man jumped when I scared him.
The teacher smiled when I said the right answer.
The friend laughed when I told a funny joke.
I had just poured a cup of coffee when the phone rang.



# P13 SMALL TALK : Time to Meet Taylor!
* kw: shoot (v.) shot
      short (adj.)
      minute (n.)
      after (prep.)
      wonderful (adj.)
      free (adj. / adv.)
      schedule (n.)

* Q:
Is there any time on the schedule tomorrow?
You're shooting a report, Ms. Jones?
So you were on the news in Canada?
How about 3:30?

* at heart (adv.)
People are kids at heart.
I'm an American at heart.
I'm a producer now, but I'm still a reporter at heart.
He is a good guy at heart.
She is a singer at heart.

* You were ... back in ...
You were a teacher back in Asia.
You were a baseball player back in high school.
You were cool back in school, right?
You were strange back in school, right?

* free (adj. / adv.)
We have 20 minutes free then.
We still have two rooms free.
Are you free tomorrow for lunch?


# P14 SMALL TALK : Time to Meet Taylor!
* kw: show (n.)
      middle (n.)
      half past... (adv.) /hæf/
      meeting (n.)
      quarter (n.)

* Q:
Do you have any idea for(about) the show this year?
You would like to play games with your guests?
Taylor, so you're doing reports, too?
Do you have dinner plans?
What time do you want to meet?
How about a quarter to 6:00?

* in the middle of sth
I would love to add a game in the middle of the show.
She arrived in the middle of the meeting.
They called in the middle of the night.

* enjoy doing sth
I really enjoy doing them.
I enjoy cooking a lot.
I enjoy working with Henry.
I enjoy reading.
I enjoy to run.
She enjoys singing songs with Bryan.

* I would love to ...
  I would like to...
I would love to get to know Selina better.
I would love to wake her up.
I would love to take you out on a date.
I would love to work abroad.
I would love to live in Norway.
I would like to hear what you thought.


# P16 SPORTS : Winter Sports
* kw: storm (n.)
      ice-skating (n.)
      snow (n.)
      snowman (n.)
      front (n.)
      build (v.)
      quite (adv.)

The storm outside is really bad.
Kayla goes ice-skating a lot.
Can we play in the snow?
Let's build a snowman!
Please wait in front of the school.

* Q:
Don't you like any winter sports?
Does he like sledding?
Why do you think it's wonderful?
What do you like to do in the winter?
What winter sport does Alex like?
Do you like cold weather? Why or why not?

* Don't you like any... ?
Don't you like any TV shows?
Don't you like any spicy foods?

* all kinds of... (adj.)
  kind of...
What kinds of things do you like?
I like all kinds of books.
There are all kinds of weather.
What kind of animals do you like?
Oh, I love all kinds of animals, but dogs and cats are my favorite.
Peter, what kinds of dogs do you like?
I don't like many kinds of dogs.
Don't you like any dogs?
I like dogs. Just not all kinds of dogs.
I only like really big dogs.

* build (v.) built
Maybe I can build a snowman after work.
Do you want to build a snowman?
build a house
build a car
build a computer
build a fire
build a website

* quite (adv.)
  quite a...
We're getting quite a storm outside.
He is quite a smart boy.
I have quite a crazy day today.
quite big
quite hot
There are quite a lot of things to do like sledding, making snowballs...
That's quite a sports.


# P17 SPORTS : Winter Sports
* kw: hockey (n.)
      guy (n.)
      skate (v.)
      practice (n.)
      borrow (v.)

Can you play hockey?
Six guys and no girls live in the house.
Hank can skate really well.
When will basketball practice start?
Can I borrow a pencil?

* Q:
Is it going to snow more?
Do you like snow, Alex?
Do you play hockey?
Is it fun?
Could I try playing hockey?
Why don't you come and watch us play this week?

* ... means ...
September means school is starting.
Hot weather means summer is almost here!
Summer weather means going to baseball games with my friends.
New Year's means lots of colourful fireworks.
LTE TV means learning and practicing ten minutes every day.
AI tech means people can predict the future to some extent.

* must (modal.)
You must skate very well.
You must like winter a lot.
She must cook very well.

* Why don't you ...? (suggest)
  You may want ...
Why don't you join us for dinner tonight?
Why don't you give her a call?
You may want to give her a call.
You may want to go to bed early tonight.
You may want more practice skating before you play.
Why don't we practise these phrase right now?
Why don't you borrow one of mine?
Why don't we play hockey today?


# P18 AROUND TOWN : On the Ice
* kw:
    skate (n.) : skates
    size (n.)
    slide (v.)
    slow (v.)
    happen (v.)

I borrowed skates to go ice-skating.
What size coat do you wear?
What size of your feet?
Brad likes to slide on the ice.
The traffic is slowing down.
What happened to your dog? Is it sick?
Did something happen to him?

* Q:
Do you want to play next time?
Are you all right?
You guys are still here?
Why are you still here?
Isn't he at the hockey rink with Rob?
Do you think something happened to him?

* isn't... ? : emphasize, surprise
Peter, isn't that a mouse behind you?

* I need to ... a lot ...
I need to walk a lot faster.
I need to eat a lot slower.

* ... be + about the same + noun ...
Our feet are about the same size.
They are about the same age.
Our hair is about the same colour.
These cars are about the same price.

* be used to sth
Do you think you're used to teaching now?
I'm used to it now.
You're not used to them.
I'm not used to the food there.
I'm used to the noise.


# P19 AROUND TOWN : On the Ice
* kw:
    accident (n.)
    fault (n.)
    break (v.) broke broken
    wrist (n.)
    completely (adv.)  //kəmˈpliːtli// : completely different

Tina fell down. It was an accident.
It's not my fault that you're late.
Karen broke the window.
He broke his leg.
Steve wears a watch on his wrist.
I'm completely done with work. Yay!
I completely forgot you had my car and were waiting for me.
I completely forgot to call my mom.
The explosion completely destroyed the building.

* Q:
Are you OK, Alex?
How is your wrist?
Did you break it?

Why did Alex fall?
Why didn't you tell me?
What kind of nurse are you?
What is the best way to take care of a cut?
What do you do after you clean the cut?
Where can we get this cream?
Is that true?
Does that help the cut heal faster?
But what if it is a very serious cut?

* fall on my wrist
I hit my head and fell on my wrist.
I fell on my face.
I fell on my knee.

* We've been ... almost ...
We've been working almost all morning.
We've been talking for almost two hours.

* more and more
  -er and -er
My wrist is hurting more and more.
They are eating more and more.
His car is running faster and faster.
She is getting louder and louder.
We are all getting smarter and smarter today.
We should think about ways you can have fewer and fewer accidents.


# P20 TALK ABOUT IT : The Lost Wallet
* kw:
    snack (n.)
    lost (adj.)
    owner (n.)
    ID (n.)
    police (n.)
    lie (v./n.) lay lain lying lies
                lied lied lying lies

Fruit is a good, healthy snack.
I can't drive because my keys are lost.
The owner needs to move his car.
You need to show your ID at the airport.
The police help keep people safe.

* Q:
What should Allison do with it?
But who was the owner?
How would she return the wallet to him?
What would you do?

* lie-lay-lain, lying  (v.)
The wallet was lying on the floor.
The dog is lying on the ground.
The cat is lying on the dog.
Don't lie on the floor.
He lay in bed all day yesterday.
The cat is lying on the sofa.
Your keys were lying on the table.

* return something to someone  (v.)
I would return this book to the library today.
I returned the shoes to the store.

* ... didn't want to do ... a lot.
I didn't want to shop a lot.
My little brother didn't want to practise the piano a lot over the weekend, so now his teacher is angry with him.
My sisters didn't want to hike a lot.


# P22 FASION : Warm Clothes for Cold Weather
* kw:
    newspaper (n.)
    sunny (adj.)  /ˈsʌni/
    thin (adj.) : light
    heavy (adj.): thick
    order (v.)

Ellen reads the newspaper every morning.
The weather is warm and sunny today.
This paper is thin. I can't write on it.
Heavy winter clothes keep you warm.

* Q:
Why are you wearing that shirt, Abby?
Why didn't you wear winter clothes?
Taylor, is this your coat?
Do you like to wear winter clothes? Why or why not?
So how do you know what to wear for the weather?

* in the newspaper/book/magazine...
I read the weather report in the newspaper yesterday.
I read his story in the book.
Look at this picture in this magazine.

* on the TV/radio/...
I learned something on that TV show - Let's talk in English.
I heard the news on the radio.
I usually read the weather report on my cellphone.

* The weather is too ... for ...
This weather is too cold for short-sleeved shirts.
The weather is too hot for a walk.
The weather is too rainy for a tennis game.
The weather is too hot for playing basketball.
The weather is too windy for a picnic.
The room is too small for living.

* warm up / cool off  (v.)
With the fire on, the room should soon warm up.
Cool off with an iced drink.
You can drink hot coffee to warm you up in winter.
You can drink cold beer to cool off in summer.

* yours, mine, his, hers, theirs, ours, its
I need a thick coat like yours.
I have a big bag like yours.
She wants to buy a bicycle like mine.
I've ever had a sports car like his.
We need to learn skills like theirs.

* order (v.)
Sometimes it's easy to order clothes online.
I usually order necessities and groceries online.


# P23 FASION : Warm Clothes for Cold Weather
* kw:
    boot (n.) : a pair of boots
    sock (n.)
    shopping (n.)
    glove (n.) : a pair of gloves
    scarf (n.) : scarves

Timmy put boots on before going outside.
My feet are cold. I need to wear socks.
You need to go shopping for food.
Wear gloves. Keep your hands warm.
Karen wears a scarf around her neck.
I keep my food in the kitchen.
I keep my laptop in the backpack.
A good winter coat will keep you warm.
A scarf will keep you warm.

* Q:
Susie, where can I buy some winter clothes?
What do you need?
Do you need anything else other than a coat?
What about boots or sweaters?
How about some thick socks?
Do you like the black ones?

* leave, bring (v.)
  left,  brought
Taylor left her clothes in Canada.
If she brought them with her, she wouldn't need to buy new clothes.
One time I left my home without a coat and the weather was cold all day.

* I could use ... == need
I could use a piece of pizza.
I could use another $20.
I could use more socks.
I could use a few more hours in a day.

* ... other than ... == except
There is no one here other than us.
I have no close friends other than Kate.
I have no hobbies other than music.
The truth was known to no one other than herself.
There is no one can fix this problem other than myself.


# P24 NEWS : Pets Need Exercise, Too!
* kw:
    exercise (n.)
    chase (v.)
    different (adj.)
    light (n.)
    healthy (adj.)

Jake gets a lot of exercise at his job.
The dog is chasing the cat.
This road is busy. Take a different one.
Turn on the light. Then I can read.
Can we eat healthy fast food?

* Q:
How can you help your pets exercise?
Did you know fish can do tricks?
What can fish do for tricks?
What do you care for?

* Some people ...(v.) with their ...(n.)
Some people sing with their friends.
Some people sleep with their pets.
Some people travel with their families.

* in ... way(s)  (adv.)
Let's do it in a new way.
He looked at me in a strange way.
You can get the tickets in three ways.
You should talk to your family in a kind way.
We can build this production in a better way.

* care for... (v.)
Care for your pets.
Please care for the house for me.
He can't care for himself.
I love caring for flowers.
Can you help me care for my house next week?
I don't care for chocolate. (like)
Would you care for some coffee?
I don't care for gossip.

* hilarious (adj.)  /hɪˈleriəs/ 
Cats chase after the light. It's hilarious.
a hilarious story
We thought it was hilarious when we first heard about it.
Your hat looks quite hilarious.


# P25 LIFE : Fun, Friends and Football!
* kw:
    vegetable (n.)
    invitation (n.)
    hand (n.) hands
    cheer (v.)
    team (n.)

I don't like eating vegetables!
Here's the invitation for my birthday!
My hands are cold. I need gloves.
Cheer for the New York players!
I play on a basketball team.

* Q:
What can I bring?
Is that too early?
How many people are coming?
Do you watch football, Taylor?
Can you come?
Can I bring anything?
Taylor, are you going to Rob's Super Bowl party?
Which team should I cheer for?

* from (prep.)
I invited some friends from the church.
Betty was my best friend from college.
Larry is a friend from work.
They are my friends from the U.S.
Where do I know him from?
Where did I know you from?
Where do you come from?

* unlike (prep.)
  unlike sth/sb
Unlike Taipei, Toronto snows a lot in winter.
Unlike my brother, I've never liked computer games.
Unlike other sports, swimming would not hurt your body.
Unlike Tony, I will choose the right one.
Unlike cats, dogs like walking and running outside.

* ... can ... for both ...
You can paint pictures for both teachers.
You can make dinner for both of your parents.
I can sing a song for both girls.
You can make a song for your fans.


# P26 LIFE : Fun, Friends and Football!
* kw:
    professional (adj.)
    compete (v.)
    during (prep.)
    creative (adj.)
    favorite (adj.)

Kobe Bryant is a professional player.
If we compete, I will win!
I fell asleep during the concert.
Stephanie is a creative artist.
The Sound of Music is my favorite movie.

* Q:
What do you like about the Super Bowl, Abby?
The ads for the game? No, the ads during the game.
What about you, Susie?
What's your favorite thing about the Super Bowl?
What about the game?

* ...ving ...
We always have a fun time cheering!
I feel so happy traveling with her.

* can't wait for ...
I can't wait for dinner.
I can't wait until my next vacation because I love to travel.
I can't wait for playing a basketball game.
I can't wait for having a party.
I can't wait for seeing you.

* n.(people) + -ing ... + be ... : adj. clause
The teams playing in the Super Bowl are very good.
The guests coming tonight are Benny and Jill.
The girl wearing a blue jacket is my baby sister.
The staff working last night were Bryan and Claire.
The man lying on the ground is my neighbour.
The people smoking on the street all are Chinese.

* have/has +  pp
  have never been to ...
I've never been to a football game.
I've never been to New York.
I've never been to a church wedding.
I've never been to Norway.
I've never been to an NBA game.

* ... can't ... without ...
I can't live without you.
I can't live without you, either.
Zack can't get through the morning without his coffee.
I can't fix this bug without my laptop.
They can't make money without lying.
I can't drive to the airport without GPS.


# P28 TECHNOLOGY : A New TV
* kw:
    office (n.)
    clear (adj.)
    strong (adj.)
    cart (n.)
    pick (v.)

I work in an office.
The picture on the TV is clear.
Peter is strong. He can move the books.
Put the food in the shopping cart.

* Q:
Hi, Abby. What's in the box?
What problem?
How can I move the box to the studio's meeting room?
Is the box really heavy?
Alex, can you help me?
Sure, what do you need? (What do you need help with?)
Can you meet me in the office?
Do you watch TV a lot? Why or why not?

* -ing + n. 
  n. + n.
meeting room  
washing machine
drinking water
swimming pool
dining table
dancing girl
flying fish
falling leaves
cat food
library book
car wheel
wood door

* during (prep.)
We have features during the show to help you learn English.
People like Rebecca and Christina also teach during the show.
You can ask questions during the class.

* pick up ...  (v.)
  pick it up
I can't pick it up.
pick up the trash
pick up the newspaper
pick up the TV (lift)
I can pick up a book, but I can't pick up a TV.
My car just got fixed.
I need to pick it up after work.
If you have a friend that needs a ride in a car, you can pick them up in your car.
The bus can pick you up.
I can pick you up at the airport.
Let me try to pick it up.

* Can you meet me ...(place) ?
Can you meet me at the post office?
Can you meet me in the mall?
Can you meet me at the airport?
Can you meet me on the corner of the street?
Can you meet me in the park?
Can you meet me at the movie theatre?
Can you meet me later to practice English?


# P29 TECHNOLOGY : A New TV
* kw:
    update (v.)
    directions (pl n.)
    explain (v.)
    button (n.)
    color (n.)
    sharp (adj.) 
    confuse (v.) confusing confused (adj.)

Joe scored a goal. Update the score!
Can you tell me the directions to the store?
Please explain the rules of the game.
Where is the on/off button?
Purple is my favorite color.
The picture is not sharp.

* Q:
Can I ask a question?
Why did we buy a new one?
Can you help set up the TV?
Why are there so many buttons on the remote?

* set up (v.)
  set it up
Can you help me set up the TV?
He is setting up his new computer.
He's helping me set up my cellphone.
I need to set up my new raspberry pi4 and laptop.
Before running the program, we need to set it up first.

* confuse (v.)
  confusing confused (adj.)
Great care is taken to avoid confusing the two types of projects.
I can't see how anyone could confuse you with another!
The instructions were really confusing.
This is so confusing.
I'm confused.

* Why are there so many ...(nouns)... on the ...(noun)...?
Why are there so many questions on the test?
Why are there so many onions on the pizza?
Why are there so many people on the train?
Why are there so many cars on the road?

* sharp (adj.)
  OPP: blurry, fuzzy
The outlines of the trees were sharp and clear.
Make sure you use a good sharp knife.
Take a sharp left after the church. (take a sharp right)
You look sharp today.


# P30 NEWS : Valentine's Day
* kw:
    wife (n.) wives
    restaurant (n.)
    boyfriend (n.) girlfriend
    heart (n.)
    flower (n.)
    also (adv.)
    get (v.)
    take out (v.)

Tom and Sara are husband and wife.
Let's eat noodles at that restaurant.
Hannah's boyfriend really loves her.
The girl drew hearts on her homework.
Grandma grows flowers outside her house.

* Q:
Do you like to go out to eat with your friends?
You can take out with your friends to eat.
What kind of candy does your girlfriend or boyfriend like?

* also (adv.)
  be + also + v.
You can also give Valentine's Day gifts.
I might also get a pizza.
He was also studying with us.
She is also late.
You are also smart.
I would also buy that product.
We would also watch this movie.
They also work for this company.
We also order this book.
She also found the way out.

* You don't need sth to ...
You don't need a husband or wife to enjoy Valentine's Day.
You don't need a lot of money to enjoy life.
You don't need a car to get around.
You don't need a lot of friends to your wedding.
You don't need more attention to your life. 
We don't need too many tests to run this program.
You don't need a boyfriend or girlfriend, either.


# P31 HOME : A New Place to Live
* kw:
    live (v.)
    area (n.)
    small (adj.)
    closet (n.)
    bathroom (n.)

I live in a busy area of the city.
This car is too small for five people.
Put your coat in the closet.
Wash your hands in the bathroom.

* Q:
Rob, where do you live?
Is that a nice neighborhood?
Do you want to live in an apartment?
So what do you think of this apartment?

* get along (v.)
  get along with someone
They get along well.
Taylor doesn't get along with her roommate.
She gets along well with Hanna.
How do you get along with your colleagues?
I usually get along well with my colleagues.

* Find some you like.
  Find some (... that) you like.
Find some you need.
Delete some you don't like.
Buy some you need.
Drop some you don't need.
Eat some you like.

* There are two of these/those ...(pl n.)
There are two of those windows.
There are two of these coats.
There are two of these bugs.
There are two of these trees.
There are three of those cars.

* What do you think of ...?
What do you think of Branda?
What do you think of the news?
What do you think of the shoes?
What do you think of this car?
What do you think of these people?
What do you think of this match?


# P32 HOME : A New Place to Live
* kw:
    cockroach (n.) cockroaches
    expect (v.)
    safe (adj.)
    landlord (n.)
    paint (v.)

No one likes cockroaches!
I don't expect to like this food.
It's not dangerous here. It's safe.
I pay the landlord rent every month.
Please paint the doors red.

* Q:
Hi, Taylor. How are you? (Fine. / Great. / OK. / Not too bad.)
Didn't you look at one yesterday with Rob?
Will you come with me?
Did you find a place to live, Taylor?

* ... nicer than I expected.
The price is higher than I expected.
It's colder than they expected.
It's hotter than I expected.
It's easier than I expected.
It's more difficult than I expected.
It's too harsh than I expected.

* It's on ... right near ...
It's on the bridge right near the middle.
It's on the Main Street right near the library.
It's on the counter right near the coffee maker.
It's on the table right near the newspaper.


# P34 SPORTS : Let's Watch a Basketball Game
* kw:
    college (n.)
    basketball (n.)
    game (n.)
    online (adv. / adj.)
    live (adj.) /laɪv/

Jessica is studying art in college.
Jeremy Lin plays basketball.
The hockey game is tonight.
Buy the tickets online.
Is this show live?

* Q:
But why are you so excited?
Do you want to go with me?
Sure. What time is the game?
What kind of tickets?
Maybe. Which teams are playing? (teams pl n.)
Do you go to basketball games? Why or why not?

* online (adv. / adj.)
I'm ordering tickets online.
I pay my bills online.
She likes to shop online.
We can buy train tickets online.
You can search for some theses online. (thesis)
He is online all the time.
We can have an online meeting.
There are so many online games at present.
Maybe you read online news stories or you could take some online classes.

* I can't wait to do sth...
I can't wait to graduate from high school.
I can't wait to finish my homework.
I can't wait to play basketball.
I can't wait to eat this cake.
I can't wait to see a live game this weekend.

* This is my first ... to/at/in ... 
This is my first live basketball game.
This is my first church wedding.
This is my first movie in Taipei.
That was his first trip to London.
This is my first flight in the sky.
This is my first scuba diving in Australia.
That was her first swimming in the river.
That was their first competition in college.


# P35 SPORTS : Let's Watch a Basketball Game
* kw:
    close (adj.)
    star (n.)
    join (v.)
    court (n.)
    high school (n.)

His answer was wrong. But it was close.
Amenda was the star of the party.
Join a school club!
Let's play basketball on that court.
Finish high school. Then go to college.

* Q:
Do you have a basketball?
I can find one.
What are you talking about?
Oh, can I join you?
Where are Susie and Jim?
Did you play basketball in hight school?

* Let's ... after ...
Let's watch a movie after dinner.
Let's exercise after class.
Let's play basketball after work.
Let's have a walk after lunch.
Let's study English after work.
Let's play basketball one-to-one.

* teams of two (n.)
  teams of two (people)
We can have four teams of three.
They are standing in teams of four.
Players are in groups of six.
We can have teams of three.
Groups of five sit at each table.
My school has classes of twenty.

* court three : n. + number
Let's go to court three.
number 75
room 128
line five
car 11
exit A3
floor 4th
building B1

* up / down
You take the ball up the court.
You are going down the court.
up the stairs
down the stairs


# P36 HOBBIES : A Nice Place for Photos
* kw:
    photo (n.)
    keep (v.)
    vacation (n.) /veɪˈkeɪʃn/
    remmember (v.)
    postcard (n.)
    scrapbook (n.)

Tiffany has a photo of her friend.
I keep money in my wallet.
Timmy goes to a beach for a vacation.
I remember you!
Janet sent me a postcard from China.

* Q:
What are you looking at, Abby?
Can I see (it)?
Who are the people in this photo?
Do you miss them?
What's in your scrapbook?
Where do you like to put your photos?

* old (adj.)
I'm looking at some old photos.
The old man gets up early every day.
Jerry is my old boss.
She didn't like her old job.
They live in an old house.
She is driving an old car.

* I keep ... with me.
I keep an umbrella with me.
I keep my wallet with me.
I keep my laptop with me.

* keep (v.)
You keep your clothes in your closet.
You keep your books on your bookshelf.
You keep food in the refrigerator.

* work on sth... (v.)
I'm working on my homework.
We're working on this project.
Let's keep working on English practice.
I'm working on it.
I'll work on the cake tonight.
 

# P37 HOBBIES : A Nice Place for Photos
* kw:
    decorate (v.)
    scrap (n.) : scraps of paper / food
    event (n.)
    memory (n.) memories (pl n.)
    camera (n.)
    material (n.) : scraps of material
    bring back (v.)

Phil decorated his office with photos.
I don't need this scrap. Throw it out.
Chrismas is a special event.
This song brings back good memories.
Let's take a photo with your camera.
a piece of material
What material is this dress made of?

* Q:
What's that book, Taylor?
Why is it called a scrapbook?
Because I decorate the book with scraps of paper.
When did you start making a scrapbook?
Rob, did you see Taylor's scrapbook?
What do you keep in your scrapbook?

* hobby - hobbies
  memory - memories
  story - stories
  city - cities
  lady - ladies
  family - families
  country - countries

* Everyone is talking about ...
Everyone is talking about the new movie.
Everyone is talking about Sam's new car.
Everyone is talking about the disease.

* take photos of sth (v.)
I can take photos of my friends here.
Can I take a photo of your dog?
I took many photos of her new car.
Can you take a photo of us?
I took many photos of our trip.


# P38 eREPORT : The Maokong Gondola
* kw:
    glass (adj.)
    cable (n.)
    admire (v.)
    delicious (adj.)
    beauty (n.)
    fly (v.)

This glass cup is dirty.
Look at these glass decorations.
The cable takes the cars up the hill.
I really admire smart people.
Mom's cooking is delicious.
Look at the beauty outside!
Birds can fly over the trees.

* Q:
How am I going to get from here to all the way up there?
Now you may be wondering how I got into the station.
I wonder what those are.
What makes the crystal cabins so special? (The floor.)
They wonder if it will break.
I would probably feel very uncomfortable if I were afraid of heights.

* be famous for something (adj.)
Maokong is famous for its tea farms.
Kenting is famous for its beautiful beaches.
They are famous for their pizza.
Norway is famous for its fabulous forest and coast.

* be about to do... (adv.)
I think we're about to arrive at the gondola station in Maokong.
We're about to arrive.
They are about to start playing.
I was about to leave when you called.
I think we're about to finish our project.

* At a ... you can ...
At a museum you can see many nice paintings.
At a fancy restaurant you can take pictures of other customers.
At a park you can have a walk or jog in the morning.
At a court you can play basketball with others.


# P40 AROUND TOWN : Alex and the Airport
* kw:
    arrive (v.)
    airport (n.)
    flight (n.)
    straight (adv.) : go straight to
    delay (v.)
    
My letter arrive today.
The plane at the airport.
Which flight are you on?
Go straight home. Mom is waiting.
I'm going straight home after work.
The train was delayed.    

* Q:
Are you going somewhere?
Are they coming for Chinese New Year?
Your parents are coming?
What time do they arrive?
And you're picking them up?
Are you leaving?

* What time ...?
What time is the party?
What time do you sleep?
What time do you leave?
What time is the game?
What time is it right now?
What time is lunch?

* pick up (v.)
pick up the trash
Can you help me pick up the TV?
He's picking up his parents at the airport.

* be + P.P.
Their plane may be delayed.
The house was painted yesterday.
The book is written by Mr.Jones.
The tickets can be ordered online.
The car should be sold next year.
The laptop was fixed by myself.


# P41 AROUND TOWN : Alex and the Airport
* kw:
    sky (n.)
    passenger (n.)
    shoe (n.) shoes
    pack (v.)
    carry (v.)
    attendant (n.) : flight attendants

The blue sky is beautiful.
Katie is a passenger in the car.
Put your shoes outside.
Pack your clothes in your bag.
Can you carry this to the house?

* Q:
How often do flight attendants work?
Oh. Is your job difficult?
How do flight attendants keep people safe?
What are emergency exits? /ˈeksɪt/
Can you give us some tips for traveling?

* How often do ...?
How often do you go on vacation?
How often do you exercise?
How often do you play basketball?
How often do you read a book?
How often do you practice your English?

* Thanks for something
  Thanks for being ...
Thanks for your help.
Thanks for the dinner.
Thanks for helping us.
Thanks for calling.
Thanks for being with us.
Thanks for being honest.
Thanks for cooking dinner.
Thanks for being my friend.
Thanks for saying that.
Thanks for being corporate.
Thanks for your mercy.
Thanks for serving me drinks and food.

* You want to be ...(adj.) :  wish, persuade, suggest
You want to be comfortable.
You want to be safe.
You don't want to be wet.
You want to be happy.
You want to be decent.
You don't want to be mean.
You don't want to be annoying.
You want to be ready.
You want to be on time.
You want to remember it.


# P42 MYSTERY : The Love Letter
* kw:
    hall (n.)
    phrase (n.)
    smell (n.)
    true (adj.) : true love
    copy (v.)
    bring (v.) brought
    held (v.) hold

The halls are crowded during breaks.
Josh knows a few Japanese phrases.
A bad smell was coming from the kitchen.
This movie tells a true story.
Don't copy your friend's answers.

* Q:
Will you be my Valentine, Keria?
Do you get a lot of candy on Valentine's day?

* She was ... about ...
  ... was ... with ...
She was worried about it.
She was angry about her low test grade.
She was happy about her surprise party.
He was sad about his failure.
They were excited about their successful.
It was colorful with many phrases on it.

* -ful (adj.) : colorful, hopeful, joyful, painful, helpful
a colorful display of flowers
Everyone’s feeling pretty hopeful about the future.
an eventful day
...a spoonful of brown sugar.
the joyful news
Giving birth to a child is both painful and joyful.
Thank you for your advice, it’s been very helpful.

* smell (n./v.)
It had a sweet smell.
I like the smell of coffee.
It has a very strong smell.
Do you smell something?
I think I smell roses!

* smell like ...
candy hearts
The note smells like them.
I smell fish.
You smell like fish.
I smell bananas.
They smell like bananas.
You smell like durian!
You smell like cake.
You smell like wine.
You look like a clown.


# P43 EVENT : Chinese New Year
* kw:
    sheep (n.) sheep (pl.)
    celebration (n.) : New Year celebration
    meat (n.)
    dumpling (n.)
    excitement (n.)
    different (adj.)

Sheep are nice animals.
Let's enjoy a birthday celebration!
Beef is my favorite kind of meat.
I like to eat dumplings.
Let's enjoy the excitement of New Year's.
Everyone is in a state of great excitement.

* Q:
Does it start today?
How do you celebrate Chinese New Year?
Did you cook?
What did you eat?
How is it different?
Do you miss that?

* They're all here ...
They're all here visiting.
They're all here studying.
They're all here watching a movie.
They're all here playing basketball.
They're all here having a meeting.

* /i:/   /i/
the year of the Sheep
sheep / ship ; seat / sit ; eat / it
sleep / slip ; feet / fit ; leave / live

* At least, ...
At least, that's the tradition.
At least, we didn't lose.
At least, they have enough to eat.
At least, we need 200 dumplings for dinner.
At least, I can speak English.
At least, she isn't stupid.
At least, you didn't die.
When you are speaking in English, at least give it a try.
If you make a mistake, at least you're practicing.


# P44 EVENT : Chinese New Year
* kw: tangerine, envelope, parade, dragon, lantern
* Q:
If you were in Taipei today, Alex, what would you be doing?
What's that?
What else?
Will you go?
How long does Chinese New Year last?

* miss + doing
I'll miss seeing them.
I miss traveling with my family.
He misses playing tennis with his father.
I miss working with her.
She might miss being with me.
What do you miss doing?

* always (adv.): no matter how
Those are always fun to watch.
It's always good to have hot soup on cold days.
It's always nice to hear from you.
I always miss her.
It's always tough to live alone.

* ... asked me to do... with...
Rob asked my family to go with him and his family.
Reese asked me to go with her to the party.
Jack asked me to go with him to see a movie.
Claire asked me to go with her to a concert.
Why did you ask him to go to the party with you?


# P46 HEALTH: My Eyes Hurt
* kw: stare, eye, pair, advice, contact, mouth
* Q:
Do you take breaks?
That often?
When was the last time you saw an eye doctor?
How do you know all this?
How can I clean it in here?

* stare at sth
You stare at that computer too much.
Don't stare at me.
Why are you staring at me?

* When was the last time you ...?
When was the last time you saw a movie?
When was the last time you took a vacation?

* one of ... s
One of my contacts is bothering me.
one of my friends
one of the rooms
one of the schools
Laura is one of my best friends.
Valentine's Day is one of my favorite holidays.


# P47 HEALTH: My Eyes Hurt
* kw: glasses, simple, convenient, tuna, chocolate
* Q:
Are you going to the eye doctor?
Why not?
How was your lunch?
Is chocolate cake good for your eyes?

* turn into sth
You don't want a simple problem to turn into a serious one.
The frog turned into a prince.
He turned the water into wine.

* ... + adj.clause + adv.clause
I have the kind I can wear when I sleep.
That's the place I want to go when I have a day off.
I took a book I can read when I take a train.

* You can get ... by + doing ... too often.
You can get eye infections by doing that too often.
You can get sick by staying up late too often.
You can get into trouble by saying bad things about people too often.
You can improve your English skills by practicing a lot every day.


# P48 ACTIVITIES: We Can Still Have Fun!
* kw: snowstorm, road, closed, stuck, indoors
* Q:
What are you doing?
What's wrong, Susie?
What do you like doing indoors?
How about you?
Why are you so happy?
How do you play?

* look + prep (phrase.)
I looked out the window.
Look behind the sofa.
Look in the drawer.
Look through the glass.
Look up!
Look down!

* indoors (adv.)  (outside, outdoors)
  indoor (adj.)
What do you like doing indoors?
Everyone stayed indoors during the snowstorm.
I like to swim indoors.
Do they have an indoor swimming pool?
I will prepare a lot of indoor games.

* How do you ...?
How do you get to school?
How do you make cookies?
How do we fix this bug?


# P49 ACTIVITIES: We Can Still Have Fun!
* kw: bored, interesting, real, chat, activity, discover
* Q:
What did you do during snowstorms in Vancouver?
Oh? What kind of books?
Does it snow a lot there?
What kind of indoor activities?
What about at home?

* sth is easy
Having fun indoors is easy!
Learning to dance is easy!
Traveling with family is fun.
Watching a movie at home is comfortable.

* I heard ...
  hear-heard
I heard you're from Washington, D.C.
I heard you're moving.
I heard you won the game.
I heard you went abroad.

* ... can make you feel ...
Too much candy can make you feel sick.
Good friends can make you feel happy.
The right learning method can make you improve quickly.


# P50 TALK ABOUT IT: The Runaway Puppy
* kw: lunch, puppy, collar, belong, catch, Internet
* Q:
Was the puppy lost?
Where was the puppy's owner?
What should we do?
How would they find her owner?
Who would take cake of Daisy for now?
What would you do?

* as (when)
As they were eating, they saw a cute puppy.
As I was cooking, the phone rang.
As he was taking a walk, it started raining.
As I was working at the office, the power was off.

* at first
They chased the puppy together at first.
I wanted to go to Tokyo at first.
She was quiet at first.
At first, no one liked her.
At first, it smelled OK.
At first, I am interested in the game.

* They didn't want to give ... to ...
They didn't want to give her to the animal shelter.
They didn't want to give an honest answer to me.
They didn't want to give a promise to me.
They didn't want to give their children to kindergarten.


# P51 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P52 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P53 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P54 
* kw:


* Q:




* 



# P55 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P56 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P57 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P58 
* kw:


* Q:




* 


# P59 
* kw:


* Q:




* 



# P60 
* kw:


* Q:




* 



# P66
You need to let me have an interview with you.
Do you know where he is?
Do you know what it is?
Do you know when she left?
Do you know how he is?
Do you know why he quit his job?
I want to know what that is?
I want to know when you left?
She wants to know why you angry?
They don't know when the bus will come?
I don't know where he is?

How is your day going?
How is everything?
How is everything going?
How's it going?
How are you doing?
How was your day going?

I can't go to the mall now.
I can't go to bed now.
I can't play basketball with you now.
I can't eat lunch now.

You just missed him.
Sarah turned her car around.
Did he come in here?

# P67
I'm still searching for him.
He began to look for a new job immediately after he was fired.
You can search for it on the Internet.
Isn't he here?
Does he know how to find the studio?

We need to do our homework.
We need to leave early.
We need to fix this bug this week.
We need to find our boss.

I don't know what I'm going to do if we don't find Toby.

I finally found you.

Finding your way to new places can be hard. (Something can be hard.)
Can you find your way to the train station?
You need to find your way to the airport.
I hope I can find my way to the school.
She can't find her way to the office.

Look upstairs on the second floor.
Walk downstairs to the kitchen.
Did you look upstairs? She isn't there, either.

get lost
I think he got lost.
I keep missing him.
I kept getting lost.
He kept missing his friend.

# P68
sunsets around the world
Some are by the beach. Others are near waterfalls.
I really love nature.
He loves watching sunsets.
He watches sunsets at the national park.

take advantage of
You should take advantage of your artistic talent in music.
Take advantage of every day.
Take advantage of the Internet.
Let's take advantage of the nice weather.
Don't try to take advantage of me.

I love traveling.
Wherever you go!
Enjoy the sunset wherever you are. Exactly!

What's your favorite thing about walks?
I love taking long walks because I get to meet people when I go walking. (get to do == can do)

I love sunsets at the beach.
on the beach
They are sitting on the beach.
We can play ball on the beach.
Let's meet at the beach.
We can go to the restaurant at the beach.

Why is it so special?
Which is your favorite feature?

Maybe one day I'll do something...
Maybe one day I'll be a basketball player.
Maybe one day I'll travel around the world.
Maybe one day I'll find my true love.
Maybe one day I'll become a famous rock star.
Maybe one day I'll become the best guitar player in the world.

# P70
archery
archery competition
archery contest
even (adv./adj.)
arena
sports arena
arrow
shoot arrows
Some of them are excellent.
Archery is a popular sport now.
He dedicated the poem to his mother.
Hunger Games Movies
Which is the most popular dish?
You are excellent!
Give it a try. Who knows?
Are you doing a story on it?
She was an excellent shot.
He was an excellent speech.
It was an excellent interview.

Someone can really do something. (good at)
That girl could really shoot an arrow.
She can really dance.
He can really eat!
You can really sleep.
They could really cheat people.
She can really sing songs.
I can really tell stories.
Wow! She can really talk!
I can really shoot a basketball.
I wish I can really play the piano.

give something a try
Maybe I'll want to give archery a try!
Maybe I'll want to give the composition a try!
Why don't you give it a try?
Let's give the new guy a try.
We really should give this plan a try.
Can you give it a try?
Maybe I'll go.

... can be either ... or ...
Archery competition can be either inside or outside.
Your shoes can be either black or brown.
The tea can be either hot or cold.
The man who does this job can be either young or old.
The method to solve this problem can be either complicated or simple.

Would you like to try archery? Why or why not?


# P71
range
Alex and I are going to an archery range.
neither... nor...
Neither Alex nor I have ever tried archery before.
focus (v.)
Focus on your homework now.
terrible (adj.)
They had really cool bows.
the basic idea
I know the basic idea.

the more... the more...
The closer your arrow is to the center, the more points you get.
The more you study, the higher your grade will be.
The more you exercise, the healthier you will be.
The harder you practice your English, the better you get.
To most people, the more money they make, the happier they get.
The closer you live to work, the less time it takes to get there.

neither... nor... has/have ever...
Neither Amy nor Cindy has ever played the game.
Neither Mom nor Dad has ever seen the movie.
Neither Bryan nor Claire has ever gone abroad.
Neither Don nor I like mushrooms.

I'm not very good at sports.
I'm not very good at dancing.

I hit everything but the target!
You thought about everything but the money!
I eat everything but cheese.
She talked about everyone but Anna.
I like everyone but Tony.
He answered every question but mine.
We bought everything but soda.
You ate everything but the meat.


# P72
What kind of information does she teach people?
What kind of sport do you like?

keep others from their home

strong (adj.)
Buy strong locks for your doors and windows.
The wine is too strong.
The sun is very strong.
I miss her very strongly.
She has strong views on education.
The snowstorm was very strong.
There's a strong smell in this room.

Don't buy cheap ones.

Buy a timer for your lights.
A timer turns your lights on and off.
Why is that important?
Lights mean people are in the house.

Buy... for your...
Buy a lock for your door.
Buy a pen for your desk.
Buy a car for your commuting.
Buy a cellphone for your communication.
Buy a pair of sneakers for your sport.

break into
break broke broken
So Stacy will tell us how to keep people from breaking into our home.
Then they won't break into your house.
A thief broke into his house yesterday.
Our office was broken into last week.
The store was broken into last month.

that
I mean don't post on Facebook and other social media that you're going on vacation.
A full mailbox tells people that no one is home.
They’ve got a machine that prints names on badges.
She rented an apartment that locates near her company.
Thieves are less likely to break into a house that has lights on.

# P73
burglary
I lost all my money in a burglary.
She followed Stacy's tips.
I need to call my landlord.
Maybe she can check my apartment.
I wanted to check on my apartment.
Can you check the computer?
Please follow the directions.

Why do you ask?
I don't want you to know.

get back to/from
I just got back to the office.
I just got back from the office.

There was a/an... this morning.
There was a snowstorm this morning.
There was an accident this morning.
There was a science fiction movie last week.

listen to
I listened to Ms. Safety!
I listen to the radio every day.
She listens to music when she is working.
You should listen to your parents.
She listened to my advice.

Remember, strong locks will help keep out thieves.
How can we keep our house safe while we are away?

# P74
hairstylist
haircut
She asked for Emily.
Emily always did Sandy's hair.
Emily took the day off.
But I can cut your hair.
But the stylist probably knew the best haircut for Sandy.
Sandy just kept quiet.
How much hair was falling?
We all loved Jim's new short haircut.

Just keep quiet.
I haven't even started yet.

I would like.. == I want...
I'd like something + adj.
I'd like my hair shorter.
I'd like the meeting earlier.
I'd like my sofa bigger.
I'd like my job easier.

But what could she say?
She would feel uncomfortable.
But she also didn't want to pay for it.
What should she say?
How do you like it?
What would you do?

She was surprised.
be surprised at something / be surprised to do...
I was surprised at the news.
I'm surprised at the price.
They were surprised at his quit.
I'm surprised at your answer.
Bryan was surprised to see Claire.

He/She was... about...
He was excited about driving.
She was worried about her job.
She was nervous about the game.
I was so tired about work overtime.

# P76
magician
Jim needs a magician for his party.
besides (adv.)
actually (adv.)
Do you know any magicians?
There aren't many magicians around.
Why don't you do a few magic tricks?
The party is a week from Saturday.

coming up
I have a big test coming up.
Our holiday is coming up.

want someone to do something
I want a magician to do tricks at his party.
I want Jenny to sing at my wedding.
He wants someone to fix his TV.
He wants me to do his job.
I want Claire to dance with me.
She wants me to travel with her.
I want them to come earlier.

Where can I (v. + n.)?
Where can I buy a new car?
Where can I go to eat dinner?
Where can I find some water?
Where can I buy a pair of sneakers.?
Where can I read this book?

around
There aren't many gas stations around.
There aren't many coffee shops around.
There aren't many book stores around.
There are so many people around.
There are so many flowers around.
I feel lucky to have a friend like Claire around.

Years ago, I did magic for kid's parties.
Please come and do some magic tricks at my son's birthday party.
It's a week from Saturday.
Susie is so talented.
You can save my life.

Nobody likes cold weather.
Actually, I do.

I see the empty pan.
How do they do it?

# P77
Now you see it, Now you don't.
Susie will put on a magic show.
But she is a little out of practice.
That helps him a lot.
A coin appears behind Abby's ear.
Do you want to see a magic trick?
I didn't know you did magic tricks.
I used to do them a lot.
I think I see something behind your ear.
You made it disappear.
Magicians have to keep their tricks a secret.

put on
Amy will put on a dinner for everyone.
There will put on a concert next week.

How did you do that magic trick?
I can't tell you.

out of practice
I used to play basketball, but right now I'm out of practice.

Show someone something
Show me a trick.
You must show him your ticket.
Please show me your ID.
You should show the security staff your boarding pass.

I think I (verb)... something...
I think I know something about the test tomorrow.
I think I left something in the office.
I think I saw something outside the window.
I think I need something to clean my car.
I think it's time to go to sleep.

I hear you're putting on a magic show.
Will you pull a rabbit out of a hat?
So what kind of tricks will you do?
I'll make things appear or disappear.
Can you do any card tricks?
Give me a $10 bill.
OK, here you go.
Can you make something else disappear?
They can make you think they do.

gone adj.
Hey! My money is gone! 
My cellphone is gone.
Her dog is gone.
All the food is gone.
Their money is gone.
He is gone.(dead)

# P78
I'm putting my things in this box.
You can't do that!
And you really fooled me!
You and your friends can play jokes on one another today.
Don't let someone fool you again!
Did Rob play a joke on you?
Let's play a joke on Rob together.
Do you often play pranks on people?
Why are you careful?
Because I don't want to be mean.
I don't like mean pranks.
Did you play a prank on anyone today, Taylor?
I played a joke on Susie with a fake spider.
April Fool's Day can be so much fun.
It's a great day to laugh with friends.
Don't play too many jokes with your friends.
Because they may play a prank on you!
Oh, I wonder why.
Did I do something wrong?
But maybe you should go find out.
Now we all get the last laugh!
But there is one day when everyone thinks about children.
Different places celebrate Children's Day on different dates.
November 20 is Children's Day in many places around the world.
Kids can learn about their rights.
Children should be healthy, too.
But some children are not safe, healthy or loved.
There are many fun things for kids to do on Children's Day.
Some cities have fairs just for kids.
They often make Children's Day special, too.
It's so beautiful up in these mountains.
Say no more.

Every... should be...
Every good friend should be helpful.
Every man should be strong.
Every hiker should be careful.
Every sentence should be super.
Every meal should be healthy.
Every vaccine should be safe.

one another
Liz and I have known one another for years.
We all try and help one another.

# P79
* keypoints:
    picture of
    belong to
    care for
    know what
    a lot / lots of / a lot of work
    ... make... adj. to do...
    ... is/are my favorite...

Jim has a picture of a bunny.
Peter belongs to Jim's son.
Jim and his son care for the bunny.
They are her favorite animals.
He is only 8 weeks old.
I know what dogs and cats need.
But how do you care for rabbits?
What do you feed him?
Peter eats mostly grass.
Yes, I'm learning a lot about bunnies.
It makes the animal happier to have a clean cage.
It's not good for the bunny if it gets too cold.
What does a bunny eat? Mostly grass.
She told me about your rabbit.
Bunnies are my favorite animal.
But they are a lot of work.
Baby bunnies need lots of care.

picture, furniture, creature
feature / future / temperature
culture, nature
It's a picture of a bunny.

They are a lot of work.
Babies are a lot of work.
Gardens are a lot of work.
Businesses are a lot of work.

... is/are my favorite...
Carrots are my favorite vegetable.
Blue is my favorite color.
Basketball is my favorite sport.
Shrimp is my favorite seafood.

Can I see it?
What's your favorite animal?
Zoo animals are in cages.
Do you have a favorite animal? What is it?
I like dogs, cats, rabbits. But one of my favorite animals is pandas.
My favorite animal is the dolphin.
Wouldn't that be fun?

# P80
pet (v.)
hop (v.)

Jim got his son a rabbit.
That is how Jim's family celebrates spring.
His son is learning how to be responsible for the bunny.
Rob takes his family to Green's Farm.
They pet the bunnies and watch them hop around.
I might get a pet bunny, too.

How cute!
How sad!
How pretty!
How smart!
How amazing!

What did you choose to eat?
Today I chose to eat fish.

for sale
on sale

How was your weekend?
We went to a farm and bought my son a pet rabbit.
Fun! Rabbits make great pets!
It's a great way to celebrate spring!

A makes great B
Jenny will make a great teacher.
Bryan will make a great athlete.
Flowers make great gifts.

How did you know?
Can I see the picture of the pet bunny?
I just got him last weekend.
Is he hard to take care of?
He is learning to be responsible.

I just got...  last weekend.
I just got a book last weekend.
I just got a new car last weekend.

Stan chose a book at the library.
First, you make the dye.

# P81
* keypoints:
talk about
get to do (can do)
is (not) good at doing
figure out what...
find out what...
What... about?
hear what...
know what...
can never... to do... but...
When you..., look for...
What should I...?
what if...

What can I talk about?
Lucky Taylor gets to interview the governor.
Taylor will also go to a party for the governor.
But Taylor is not good at making small talk.
What other topics can she talk about?
She also tells her to look for friendly people to talk to. (friendly adj. : a friendly smile)
She has to figure out what she can talk about at a party for the governor.
Taylor needs to find out what to say at the party.
She doesn't get to interview me.
What will you interview her about?
I'll ask her about her ideas to improve education.
What do you think that people are interested in?

I get to travel this year.
I get to find a new job.
I get to interview her.
I didn't get to see her. (can't)
You might get to try some free samples. (cake store)

Did you hear the news?

But I'm worried about one thing.
What's that?
There is a party for the governor on Tuesday evening.

I'm invited.
You are invited to Christina's birthday party.
You are invited to join us for dinner.

But I won't know anyone there.
So? Just make conversation with people.
I can never think of anything to talk about but the weather.
But it gets boring really fast.
I feel I can never find out other hobbies but music.

You need to plan ahead. (ahead adv.)
I need to prepare ahead.
Do I need to teach you ahead?

Make a list of some topics to talk about.
Well, first, always tell people your name.
Then ask, "Where are you from?"
Who should I talk to?
Who should I ask for?

When you..., look for...
When you walk into a room, look for friendly people.
When you get to the meeting, look for me.
When you arrive at the airport, look for the taxies.
When you learn how to speak English, look for the right method.
When you feel tired, look for some fun.

I don't know what to say.
But what if there are not small pets?

Don't let your attitude get in the way.
Not just talk the talk and giving the facts.
Give up your way with a bit of grace.
Good or bad comes from the heart.

# P82
What can I talk about?
She's afraid she won't know what to say.

She's afraid she won't...
She's afraid she won't get to the airport on time.
She's afraid she won't do well on the math test.
I'm afraid I won't solve this problem tomorrow.

She has to make small talk.
make small talk
make conversation with someone
make comments
make a promise
She really loves to make small talk with her friends.
You should make a conversation with your families very often.

Then talk about the food or even the room itself.

Introduce yourself.
introduce A to B.
I want to introduce Linda to you.
Can you introduce me to your boss?
How can I introduce myself to her?

Please do.
Can I buy your dinner?
Please do.

You must have been talking to Taylor.
She must have been arriving at the airport.

She said I should go to the reception instead of her!

# P83
It's my treat!
My treat!
I'll treat you.
Let me treat you.
It's on me.

How are tortillas made?
the staple
Rice is the staple food of more than half the world's population.
We made them from scratch on the spot from recipes that I learned from my family when I was a child.
baking powder, shortening

To make something you need...
(You need... to make something.)
To get up early you need to go to bed before 10:00.
To pass the test you need to study hard.
To work abroad you need to speak English very well.

After the dough has rested, it's time to press it out.

Now the... is ready to...
Now the special drink is ready to drink.
Now the fish is ready to cook.
Now the car is ready to drive.
The clothes are ready to wear.
The steak is ready to eat.

# P85
Scavenger hunt
We can race to find things.
race to do something
They race to find the answers.
They race to finish dinner.
We race to make three points first.

That would be...
That would be a challenge.
That would be a nice surprise!
That would be a great game!
That would be cheating!

Ready? Set? Go!
Find something (that is) a hundred years old.
We are looking for someone over six feet tall.
I'm looking for someone taller than you.
We need someone smarter than you.
What does each team need?

# P86
run out of...
run out of time
run out of energy
run out of gas
even though

Once we (did)... we just (did)...
Once we heard about the test, we just began to study.
Once we got home, we just went to bed.
Once I got to the office, I just started to work.
Once we finished dinner, we just talked.
Once I finished the race, I just rested.

They ran straight back to the office.
I went straight to the restaurant after work.
He came straight from the party.
Can you go straight to the store?

I didn't think we would.
I didn't think we could make it.
I didn't think you would come.
He wouldn't think that was a good idea.
They didn't think my school would win.
I wouldn't think you can solve this problem.

I noticed many things today that I've never seen before.
It was fun visiting places I often ignore.
I want to eat at that dinosaur restaurant sometime.
A scavenger hunt is a good way to learn more about your town!

I noticed what you're doing.
I noticed that you're not talking to me.
I was ignoring you.

I know what you mean.
I often ignore emails from stores.

# P87
Here comes the bride.
A young lady came to me 15 minutes before the wedding.
I could tell something was wrong, so I went with her.
When no one was around.
The bride has disappeared.
My keys have disappeared.

I need to call my mom 10 minutes before I get on the plane.
I should have a snack before an hour I exercise.
Please call me five minutes before the meeting.
He came back to school two months after the accident.

I can tell that person is happy.
I can tell that person is sad.

The woman took me to the bride's dressing room.
I left for a moment. I came back and she was gone.
What if something happened to her?
a fair question

Did she get...(adj.) and...(v.)?
Did she get sad and cry?
Did she get scared and leave?
Did he get nervous and run away?

What would you do if you tore your wedding dress?
I'd hide.
Then she covered her mouth.
The dress isn't getting married. You are!

We found the bride crying inside.
I know the man standing by Nancy.
He's looking at the girl talking on the phone.
We don't know the girl crying outside.
I found a wallet lying on the ground.
She likes the dress hanging on that hanger.

What would you do if...?
What would you do if you didn't have to have a job ever again?

Wait a moment while I find a pen.

# P88
wheat crackers
peanut butter
I get hungry in the afternoon.
There are some really yummy healthy snacks.
I'm eating a snack.

This is a nice apartment.
This is a nice dog.
This is a nice house.
This is a nice living room.
This is a nice car.
This is a nice phone.

What do you do with them?
I put the peanut butter on the crackers.
Then I put a slice of banana on each cracker.
How does it taste?

slice (n. / v.)
a banana slice
a slice of banana
two slices of bread
three slices of ham
slice the tomato
slice the beef

What are some good foods that I can eat?

# P89
hummus
pecan
walnut
I'm getting hungry.
They taste good, too. (taste/smell/look/feel/sound + adj.)
It's cucumber slices and hummus.
It's pretty good.
Don't eat that treat.
Are you feeling OK?
Do your healthy snacks taste good?

lately (adv.)  // do it more than once
I've eaten too much candy lately.
You look tired lately.
He has a lot of trouble at work lately.
He came to school late this morning.
I went to bed late last night.
I have been swimming lately. 

I got us lost out of nowhere.

I'm trying to... better...
I'm trying to have a better attitude.
I'm trying to live better with you.
I'm trying to get a better job now.
I'm trying to watch better movies.
I'm trying to read better books.

# P91
check the lobby
We need someone to shine the floor.
Are you feeling better about the reception?
Do you know why the governor is coming to town?
You should watch our news program more often.

You should... more often.
You should eat at home more often.
You should go out with friends more often.
You should practice talking in English more often.
What should you do more often?
I should go to the park more often.

You're not going to believe this!
Teamwork is the best way to get things done.

She's coming here ... at ...
She's coming here next Wednesday at 3:00.
She's coming here today at lunchtime.
He's coming here next Thursday at 6:00.

Taylor is trying to do everything for the governor's visit.
Carol told her to delegate.
You and I are checking the lobby.
I can delegate dessert to our friends.

get something for...
Let's get some flowers for the front desk.
I'll get some water for the flowers.
Can you get some drinks for the party tonight?
Can you get a laptop for the meeting?
I need to get something for lunch.
You need to get some money for your trip.
I need to get a gift for my sister's birthday.

How do you prepare for important events?

# P92
Alex will lead the tour.
I've been solving minor problems all morning.
I was going to plan the tour.
The governor will be here in less than an hour.
Well, we didn't exactly work well together.
I asked people to do the same thing.
We need to work on our teamwork.
Then we can do better next time the governor comes!
It was my fault!
Please lead the way to the kitchen.
She didn't exactly tell the truth.
Please control your dog.

Only one of ... needs to do...
Only one of them needs to cook.
Only one of the boys needs to work.
Only one of yours needs to explain.
Only one of us needs to call or order the pizza.

I was going to tell you the truth.
He was going to drive there.
I was going to have a slice of cucumber.

No. Is she going to?
Yes. She is going to call when the governor leaves the airport.

The station is her first stop in the city.
The car stops.
He stops talking.
Your school is my last stop today.
Let's make a stop at her store.
Which stop are you going to?

# P93
They can buy everything except the table.
Maybe they can get a group together.
They need to buy two paddles.
I miss playing.
It might be fun.
You need the right equipment to play.
Oh, look. Here are the rackets!
What else do we need?
He makes it fun.
Who is the best player? I wonder.

table tennis
car key
paper bag
water bottle
bedroom
boyfriend
snowman
T-shirt
check-in

You can buy everything except a car.

We can use the ... at ...
We can use the piano at school.
We can use the bathroom at the supermarket.
You can use my equipment at the court.
You can use my membership card at the club.
You can use my ATM card at the store.

get something together
We can get a band together.
Let's get a study group together.
We can get a reading group together.

# P94
He even has some fancy moves.
But she can play doubles with Jim.
doubles/singles
Maybe you and I can play doubles.
We can work as a team.
When we play table tennis, do you want to be partners?
She had a lot of matches then.
It was fun to play against everyone.
She and Jim made a great team.
So we beat everyone!
Let's play again soon.
Playing table tennis with everyone was really fun.
His dance moves are really fancy.

I'm excited about running after work.
I'm excited about playing basketball.
I'm so excited about singing that song for you.
I'm excited about going to my friend's house later.
I'm so excited about playing table tennis.
He is excited about the trip.
We are excited about going to his class.

then
I had a lot of games then.
I had a lot of ideas then.

Can you ... after ...?
Can you study after class?
Can you eat after church?
Can you watch a movie with me after work?

Something was really fun
Taking a trip with my best friends was really fun.
Singing with my friends was really fun.

# P95
The Report Card
But her backpack still felt very heavy.
Would she lie to them?
The pressure came from just one piece of paper - her report card.
Sarah couldn't wait any longer.
It was bad, bad news.
I can't wait any longer.
Sarah's grades were not good at all.
She was usually a good student, but she became lazy as a senior.
She spent a lot of time online instead of studying for tests.
If she didn't show them the report card, they wouldn't find out!
But if her parents asked, could she lie to them?
Bryan felt a lot of pressure at work.

not... any longer == no longer
can't do the job any longer
can't live there any longer
He is no longer living there.
We no longer hear from her.

lie-lied-lied lying
Could she lie to them?
Did you lie to me?
Don't lie to me!
He lied about his grades.
He is lying.
tell a lie / tell lies

He/She spent a lot of time ... instead of ...
She spent a lot of time cleaning instead of cooking.
She spent a lot of time singing instead of practicing her violin.
He spent a lot of time playing instead of doing homework.
She spent a lot of time working instead of living.

# P97
Getting a Driver's License
But she still needs to take two tests.
How can she get one?
Taylor applies for her license.
Can she pass the tests?
Rob needs to renew his license.
When I lived in Vancouver, I took a driving course.
How's your driving?
You have to take a driving test at the DMV.
Do I need to bring anything?
You need to take your ID and money to pay the fee.
Actually, I need to go to the DMV to renew my license.
We can go there to apply for your license.
I ran a red light.
You need a license to drive.
DMV is the Department of Motor Vehicles.

When I ... I ...
When I cook, I use fresh fruit and vegetables.
When I traveled to Europe, I brought one bag.
When I work at the office, I like to listen to music.

online (adv. / adj.)
I'm looking for information online.
He likes to watch movies online.
They chat online every day.
online games
He knows a lot about online games.
She is opening an online store.

No, not yet.
Did you do your homework?
No, not yet.
Did you take out the trash?
No, not yet.

apply for something
She is applying for a new credit card.
You need to apply for a visa.
I need to apply for my passport.
Bryan can apply for the job.

# P98
She passed both of her driver's license exams.
Abby failed the driving test once, but she learned her lesson.
When driving, remember to check your speed.
Don't go over the limit!
congratulations
traffic laws
We need to follow traffic laws.
The driving test was hard, but I was prepared.
The written exam was hard, too.
Now you can drive anywhere you want.
Buy the right car. Buy the right pair.
How did it go at the DMV?
Taylor had no problem getting her license.
She even drove us home!
Sometimes the tests can be a real challenge for people.
That was a piece of cake!
It was a piece of cake.
How was the driver test, Taylor?
But it was hard to remember and follow all the traffic laws.
I know. I failed the test once.
I was so busy watching the road that I forgot to check my speed.
I went over the limit.
Now that I have my license, I drive very carefully.

drive-drove-driven
drive someone to someplace
I can drive you to the bank.
Can you drive me to the supermarket?
She even drove us home! (home adv.)

I was so ... that I ...
I was so busy that I forgot to call my mom.
I was so sick that I couldn't go to school.
I was so tired that I couldn't finish my work.
My eyes were so hurt that I couldn't read my book.

Now that (because)
Now that Tommy's here, we can start the meeting.
Now that Ezra lives in America, he must speak English every day.
Now that the bug has been solved, we can release our program.
Now that I take this job, I have to finish this project.

# P99
A Fresh Garden for Spring!
Maybe she can plant a garden.
She can go to the nursery after work.
The nursery sells flowers.
yellow lily
I like yellow lilies.
Purple tulips are very pretty, too!
Spring is here!
What do you like about spring?
It's my list of flowers.
Why do you have a list of flowers?
I want to plant a small garden.
I found the paper on the floor.
I can go to the nursery after work.
I can buy some seeds and soil.
The purple ones are the best.
peony
There are many kinds of lilies.
Flowers are nice.
I'm growing flowers.

What do you like about ...?
What do you like about the book?
What do you like about the class?
What do you like about your job?

plant (v. / n.)
I can plant some flowers in my garden.
I can't plant anything there.
It's a kind of plant.
There are many different kinds of plants in my garden.

# P100
Sometimes the weather can be really hot and humid.
But she loves planting flowers.
But not all flowers need the same amount.
So watch them.
If some flowers get too much sun, they will die.
Some flowers die when they get too much sun.
Daisies and sweet peas are colorful flowers.
They are easy to recognize.
Is that a hard job?
It can be.
But I get to plant beautiful flowers.
That just means that the air feels heavy and sticky.
It's both hot and humid.
She tells us that not all flowers need the same amount of water.
What are some colorful flowers to plant?
Grace says that they can come in many different colors and they smell good.
Tina owes me a large amount of money.
Why aren't they growing?

That sounds very uncomfortable.
happy/unhappy
comfortable/uncomfortable
kind/unkind
wise/unwise
safe/unsafe

Some ... when ...
Some teachers feel really tired when their students are loud.
Some people are happy when they see their families.
Some students feel happy when they finish a test.
Some people get sick when they don't sleep enough.
Some people feel uncomfortable when they work too hard.

but again...
But again, they don't all need the same amount.
But again, you need to go early.
But again, it's not cheap.

# P101
Susie's Family Reunion
get-togethers
Will you see your family on Mother's Day, Abby?
Will your whole family be there?
So will all my cousins.
Does your family have family reunions, Rob?
When I visit, my whole family has a big get-together.
Do you have a lot of relatives in Taipei?
So it's nice to spend time with them.
My family has get-togethers on important holidays like Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Easter.
What are your plans for Mother's Day, Taylor?
If I can't visit, I call.
Do you visit your family often?
I see them twice a year.
My family comes to visit me once a year, too.
Will they come to visit soon?
I miss them.
Can you go to the family reunion?

So will I.
So will her cousins.
Her cousins will also be there.
All the students are tired. So is the teacher.
His girlfriend does like movies. So does he.

get together with someone
My family gets together on important holidays.
Let's get together sometime.
Rob gets together with his relatives in Taipei.
a big get-together

If I can't do... I do...
If I can't sing, I cry.
If I can't swim, I play tennis.
If I can't do what I'm supposed to do, I quit.

# P103
Phone Plans!
Taylor also signed up for a phone plan.
Did you get a new phone?
You can type fast on a big screen.
I can watch online videos and TV shows on it.
Her old phone died last week.
Did you see Taylor's new phone?
You can really type fast with those big buttons.
But small phones can be convenient, too.
Does your phone has a big screen?
They are easy to hold.
I'm really happy with it.
I signed up for one at the phone store.
The workers helped me find a cheap one.
Everyone is talking about it.
Look how fast I can type.

die
My car died on the highway.
pass away (people)
He passed away in 1988.

You can't ... in ...!
You can't put a big phone in a small pocket!
You cant' sleep in class.
You can't ski in Taiwan!
You can't talk aloud in theatre!

I'm happy with it.
We are happy with the answer.
I'm happy with her.

sign up
You can sign up for the class online.
You can also sign up to join a group.
We signed up for the trip to Africa.

# P104
Abby doesn't have a monthly phone plan.
She buys minutes when she uses her phone.
Taylor tells her there are other choices.
Abby can consider a phone plan.
He has a new data plan.
He doesn't need Wi-Fi anymore.
He's always connected to the Internet! (connected adj.)
Taylor, can you give me some cellphone advice?
I'm considering getting a monthly phone plan.
What kind of play do you have?
After I use them all, then I buy more minutes.
Were you able to help that person?
I don't have one.
Buying minutes is getting expensive.
A monthly plan might be cheaper for you.
You can pay the same amount every month.
And you can use your phone as much as you want.
Don't you think so, Alex?
This is my favorite monthly magazine.
There are many choices to choose from.
You should consider studying harder.
We can use email to stay connected.
Is that what you have?
Is it expensive?
Many people enjoy cartoons, but it's not easy to draw then.

consider + doing
I'm considering taking a train to Texas.
They are considering hiring you.

 ... as much as you want
I can read as much as I want.
I can sleep as much as I want.
I can play video games as much as I want.
Eat as much as you want!
You can talk as much as you want!
You can drink beer as much as you want!

sound + adj.
sound like + n.
That sounds like a good choice for me.
That idea sounds good.
That sounds expensive.
It sounds like my mother.
They sound like good friends.
That job sounds terrible.
His plan sounds like a good idea.

these days
These days everyone has a phone.
These days everyone loves money.

# P105
The New State Test
The state starts using it soon.
The state wants to know that students are improving.

What kind of ... is it?
What kind of book is it?
What kind of job is it?
What kind of food is it?
What kind of car is it?
What kind of phone do you have?

Good to have you here, Alex!
It's good to have you here.
Good to have you here.
Good to have you back.
Good to hear from you.
Good to know that.
Good to see you again.
It's happy to help!

Don't be nervous.
Don't stop!
Don't ride the bike.
Don't be afraid.
Don't be angry.
Don't be silly.

# P106
Some students cram right before a test.

Pay attention, class.
pay the bill
pay for the drink
pay attention (give)
Please pay attention to the teacher.
pay a visit to someone
I'm trying to pay attention. (Please be quiet. I want to pay attention.)
She is paying attention to the movie.

review (v. / n.)
I'm always reviewing the things I've learned.
Are you reviewing for the test? It's important to review.
The review just took you 15 minutes.
Let's have a review of the lessons.

It's hard to put all of ... in ...
It's hard to put all of that knowledge in your head right before a test.
It's hard to put all of those ideas in your paper.
It's hard to put all of those clothes in your bag.
It's hard to finish all of your work in one day.

Breaks help me stay focused.

Sometimes I like to make a quiz about the things I'm learning.

take a (short) break
When you're studying, you should take a short break every half hour.

# P107
National College of Performing Arts
The sun hasn't even risen yet.
Students begin their warm-ups and exercises at about 5:50 a.m and will work out until 7:30 when they eat breakfast.
Can you show us what you can do?
do an audition
That means they will sing or dance or show talent in front of some teachers and judges.
Actually, that sound that we hear is not noise.
The students must be practicing for a performance.
cymbal
woodblock
flute

perfect (adj. / v.) //pərˈfekt//
On some days, they work to practice and perfect their performance skills like juggling, singing, dancing, and playing instruments.
They practice and perfect their skills.
That's a perfect plan.
I have a perfect idea.

try to earn a place to do
Each year hundreds of students try to earn a place to study at NTCPA, but only a few are given the chance.

accept
After the students are accepted to the school, they study in different departments.

work as something
Many of the students at this school will work as professional actors and musicians after they graduate.
Brad works as a high school teacher.
I work as a clerk at a supermarket.
I work as a programmer at a firm.

They can ... until they ...
They can drive until they run out of batteries.
They can play until they are hungry.
They can read until they are tired.
They can eat until they are full.

# P109
Did you hear?
Hear what?
The big news.

cost-cost-cost
How much does it cost?
How much does a bike cost?
It costs a lot.
It doesn't cost much.
cost someone something
The new book cost me $300.

rent / borrow
You can borrow a bike from the city!
She will probably charge me a lot of money to rent that bike.

The first ... is/are ...
The first songs are new.
The first song is new.
The first person is early.
The first job is hard.
The first 30 minutes are free.

extra
Do you have an extra bike?
I have an extra shirt.
I have an extra house.

go for a ride
Let's go for a ride today!
Let's go for a drive.
Let's go for a walk.
Let's go for a picnic.
Let's go for a swim.
Let's go for a drink.

Who can Abby borrow a bike from?

# P110
sore
Abby and Rob are sore but they had fun.
Their legs are so sore.

go hiking
go skydiving
Maybe we can go skydiving together!
Let's hike up this mountain.

interested, interesting
might be interested
The others might be interested, too.
She might be interested in the trip.
Are you interested? Yes, I'm interested in the race.
I'm interested in books.
I'm interested in cooking dinner instead of going out to eat.
Something is interesting
The movie is interesting.
That's an interesting story.

... might be ..., too
Lise might be hungry, too.
The boss might be busy, too.
Bryan might be tired, too.

do the race
Then we can all do the race together.
I'll do the dishes.
Can you do the dinner?
Can you do the cleaning?
I'll let you do the talking.
We should do some thinking.

I had a flat tire.

# P111
Some people rub spices on the meat before they cook it.
Then they cook it slowly and put sauce on it.
watermelon
Everyone wants to win.

barbecue (v. / n.)
Many people like to barbecue in warm weather.
Let's barbecue some seafood tonight.
Some people have a barbecue outside their house.
There are some really big barbecue contests during these holidays.

grill
Grill the bacon until crisp.
Put it under a hot grill to brown for two minutes.

time
The most popular times for barbecues are holidays.
How much time does it take?
We don't have much time now.
Mornings are the best times to exercise.
Weekends are the busiest times for the restaurant.

... is a popular hobby
Swimming is a popular hobby.
Reading is a popular hobby.
Barbecuing is a popular hobby.

# P112
sneeze
You are really sneezing a lot, Alex.
They may make you sneeze.

allergy  allergic
Do you have allergies?
Some people are allergic to dust or animals.
Are you allergic to anything?

get + adj.
Are you getting sick?
Don't get wet.
He wants to get rich quickly.
I get tired easily.
He gets hungry after exercise.

My throat is sore.

Are you going to throw up?

maybe you should ...
Maybe you should go lie down.
Maybe you should stay home and study.
Maybe you should talk to your dad.
Maybe I should quit my job.

cold medicine
allergy medicine
stomach medicine

# P113
over-the-counter medicine
His nose is running.
His eyes itch, too.
I have a cough.
Are you sick?

antacid
Abby will get an antacid for Taylor to help her stomach.

get (buy)
So you're going to get them some medicine.
I'm just going to run to the drugstore to get some over-the-counter medicine. 
What kind of allergy medicine are you going to get?
Just get any cold medicine.
Get her an antacid.
Let's get some aspirin, too!

run: go quickly
I'm going to run and get some coffee.
Do you want to run to the supermarket with me?

What about something about Jim's sore throat?

last for
Get one that lasts for 12 hours.
A movie lasts for 2 hours.
This show lasts for 30 minutes.
The class lasts for one hour.
Our food will last for half a year.
This medicine can last for 12 hours.
The movie lasts for 90 minutes.
The meeting lasted for the whole afternoon.

stop ... from doing something
Will the allergy medicine make me stop sneezing and stop my eyes from itching?
Will the medicine stop my eyes from itching?
Someone needs to stop him from smoking.
No one can stop parents from loving their children.
You should take some medicine to stop your sick from getting worse.

No one has a fever.
No one has one yet!

What kind of ... are you going to ...?
What kind of president are you going to be?
What kind of book are you going to write?
What kind of super sentence are you going to say?
What kind of person are you going to be?
What kind of car are you going to buy?

# P115
avenge
avenger
Who can he go with?
I didn't see it.

Maybe we can ... the ... next week.
Maybe we can try the restaurant next week.
Maybe we can plan the party next week.
Maybe we can have a run together next week.
Maybe we can hike on the mountain next week.
Maybe we can ride bikes at the park next week.

come out
When does that new movie come out?

yet
Did you see the new Avengers movie yet?
Did you call her yet?
Did she answer your question yet?
Did you fix that bug yet?
He doesn't fix that bug yet.
They are not ready yet.
It's not decided yet.

I don't know a lot about ...
I don't know a lot about the movie.
I don't know a lot about pets.
I don't know a lot about Rose.

# P116
Do you like to go to the movies?
Maybe the girls will arrive soon.

in ...(time)
The movie starts in 5 minutes!
His parents will be back in two weeks.
My test is in three days.
The class starts in 10 minutes.
The class ends in 7 minutes.

almost
She's almost here.
Are you almost here?
I'll be there in a minute.
He almost fell down, but he didn't.

bring ... into ...
In America, you can't bring your own food into the theatre.

save
Save it.
Let's save it for tomorrow.
You saved my life!
I save my money in the bank.
We can save water in many ways.

Don't forget to ... your ...
Don't forget to finish your homework.
Don't forget to close your window.
Don't forget to submit your application.
Don't forget to use it.
Don't forget to clean your room.

polite / rude
That's not very polite.
It's not polite to have a cellphone on during the movie.
That's so rude.

# P117
Amusement Parks and Roller Coasters
It's scary but fun!
I try to go there once or twice every summer.
The rides are really cool!
Does the park have any roller coasters?
The Monster climbs 150 feet, and you go down really fast.
Maybe another time.
Those are the best rides.

I'm thinking about something.
I'm thinking about going to the Funtimes Amusement Park.
Hmm, I'm thinking about pizza.
I'm thinking about next Monday.
I'm thinking about playing basketball later.
I'm thinking about going for a ride.
I'm thinking about taking a day off.

The last time I ... was ... ago.
The last time I saw a movie was two weeks ago.
The last time I flew in a plane was a year ago.
When was the last time you did something?
When was the last time you took a trip?
The last time I took a trip was 10 years ago.

I'm not a fan of something.
No. I'm not really a fan of amusement parks.
Well, I'm not really a fan of steak.
I'm not a big fan of rock music.
I'm not a fan of sweet food.
I'm a big fan of rock music.

# P118
gossip
rumor
She and her friends like to gossip.
They watched Caleb pass them in the hall.
There is a rumor he did something really bad.
I thought something bad happened to his family.
They talked about everyone, even people they hardly knew!
Maybe we shouldn't talk about it.
We aren't hurting anybody.
She started to say that maybe Caleb did something bad to his family.
She knew that probably wasn't true.
If Caleb heard them, he would be hurt.

stop doing ...
stop to do something
Tim and Natalie stopped chatting.
Let's stop practicing.
Please stop kicking my chair.
You really should stop spreading rumors like that.
You stop to answer the phone.
He stopped to watch TV.
I stopped working.
I stopped to play a video game.

Maybe it was time to change.
Maybe it's time to change.
It's time to change.
It's time for a change.
We'd like to make some changes.
Did you see the change in him?

That was ..., wasn't it?
That was cool, wasn't it?
That was romantic, wasn't it?
That was terrible, wasn't it?
That was pretty good, wasn't it?

# Thursday
What ride do you want to go on first?
I've never been on it.
How fast does it go?
Funtimes is about two hours from here.
Do you want to be there when it opens?
If the lines aren't too long, we can go on all the rides.
Well, we'll just have to come back another time.

# P120
They picked up their ... and started to ...
They picked up their bags and started to get in line.
They picked up their pens and started to write.
We picked up our guns and started to shoot enemies.

I can't believe I lost it!
I can't believe you bought that expensive ring!
I can't believe there's no pineapple in the pineapple cake!
I can't believe you ate all my chocolate!
I can't believe you lied to me!
I can't believe she left home!

Someone shouldn't have done something
I wore it, but I shouldn't have.
I shouldn't have stayed up late last night!
Sorry. I shouldn't have said that.
You shouldn't have drunk too much last night.

Did you lose something?
I dug into it and pulled out the ring.
What a relief!

# P121
need somebody's help with ... on ...
I need Bryan's help with my job on this project.

exhibit (v. / n.)
exhibition (n.)
He has exhibited symptoms of anxiety and overwhelming worry.
The artist is now having her first solo exhibit in New York.
an exhibition of black and white photographs

I have ... next ...
I have a few minutes next Monday.
I have three days next week.
I have a couple of hours next Thursday.

promise to do ...
keep/break one's promise
Please promise to finish on time.
He promised to help us.
Please keep your promise.
How can you break your promise?

I don't even have a second to rest!
I didn't even have a second to think about it.
I need a second to breathe.
Do you have a second to talk?
Can I have a second to think about it?

What's your schedule like next week?
I've been pretty busy lately.
I'd like your help with a report about Chinese art.
It won't happen again.
Why are things so busy this week?
Some weeks are just busier than others, Abby.

# P122
What time are we recording, Alex?
Isn't that confusing?
I've learned my lesson.
Jim got mad at Taylor.
The schedule is tight.

I was late doing something.
I was late getting to the studio.
I was late going home last night.
He was late paying his rent.
She was late for being in the meeting.
He was late getting to the airport.

have/has been + adj.
The schedule has been really tight this week.
Why has it been a hard day?
This trip has been fun for everyone.
This test has been easy for everyone.
This project has been finished last week.

So much for ...
So much for never being late again!
So much for that idea.
So much for the picnic.

# P123
camping
campaign
I like camping.
Do you camp often?
But I camped a lot as a child.

outdoors (n.)
outdoor (adj.)
She is daydreaming about the outdoors.
I'm a lover of the outdoors.
We can enjoy the outdoors.
They like going outdoors.
Let's eat outdoors today.
an outdoor activity
an outdoor wedding
outdoor sports

... is/are great for ...
Music is great for studying.
Blankets are great for cold days.
Fresh fruits are great for your health.

Let us do/not do ...
Let's make a list now.
Let's plan a trip.
Let's go camping next week.
Let's give her a gift.
Let's not forget anything.
Let's not take a train.
Let's not eat too much candy.

# P124
set up the tent
set up to the poles (set it up)
Let me set up my computer first.
Please set up the table for me.
And we got it set up.

... had trouble ...
Mom had trouble reading the newspaper.
Joe had trouble starting the car.
Bryan had trouble setting up the tent.
Claire had trouble booting the laptop.
I had trouble finding your address.

scared / scary
Were you scared?
My sister is scared of snakes.
Wild animals can be scary.
That's a scary movie.
I don't like scary stories.
Are wild foxed scary?

# P125
An important folder was missing.
Are you missing something?

with
It is next to a piece of paper with a very strange message on it.
It is an email with a strange message on it.
Look at the bag with a flower on it.
I'm looking for a credit card with my photo on it.
He put on the uniform with lots of badges on it.
There was only one ... with ...
There was only one result with that name.
There was only one person with glasses.
There was only one ball with my name on it.
There is only one box with the clue in it.
There was only one dish with beef.

for / on
I searched for "clue" on my computer.
I was writing a report on my computer.
Do you like shopping on the computer?
on the phone
I called Claire on the phone.

tape (n. / v.)
I got the whole concert on tape.
Fit the carpet using double-sided tape.
The folder was taped to the bottom.
I taped the base of the feather onto the velvet.
The hostage's mouth was taped.

# P126
time to time (sometimes)
Everyone gets mail from time to time.
I see her at school from time to time.
We heard from her from time to time.
I like to tease Claire from time to time.

italicize
Why do we italicize words in the magazine?

Put the right address on your mail.
I will put your name on the list.
Can you put your phone number here?
I will put our meeting on the schedule.

A ... can make ...
A birthday card can make someone smile.
A good book can make me happy.
The right tools can make your job easier.
A good habit can make your body healthy.

# P127
What does it say?
Is Alex around?
You can put up a flag in your mailbox.
The mail carrier will put the flag back down.
Did the package cost a lot to mail?
How difficult was your test yesterday?

You can pick up your package there.
I will pick up the book after school.
Do you want to pick up the DVDs tomorrow?

deliver something to someplace
Why didn't the mail carrier deliver it to his house?
They deliver pizza to your home.
They will deliver the jacket to your office.
Can you deliver the bag to my house?

Are you waiting for ...?
Are you waiting for the answer to come into your head?
Are you waiting for the water to get hot?
Are you waiting for me to say something?
Are you waiting for the bus to pull in?

# P129
wear (v.)
Don't you wear sunscreen?
Some girls wear jewelry.
Some girls wear make-up, too.
She doesn't wear makeup.
I do wear a hat and sunglasses in the sun.
wear a necklace
wear earrings
wear a dress
wear shoes
wear a jacket

I don't worry about ...
I don't worry about the weather.
I don't worry about my homework.
I don't worry about my career.

stick / sticky
It's sticky!
luck / lucky
health / healthy
cloud / cloudy
noise / noisy

# P130
aloe vera
vinegar
blister
tomato juice
spray
She sprays vinegar on sunburn.
Put some vinegar in the soup.
I didn't bring any.
I put some aloe vera on it.
Then she doesn't get blisters.
My shoulder is really sunburned.
Does that help?

or so (approximate)
You should put more on every hour or so.
You should have 8 cups of water every day or so.
I will be back at 11:00 or so.
The lunch cost me $20 or so.
It took me three days or so to read the book.
It spent me 3 hours or so to fix that bug.
I think you should spray more water every day or so in your garden.

I ... before I ...
I cleaned my house before I went for a walk.
I ate dinner before I went to the movie.
I ordered the hotel before we went on a trip.

treat
If you have a sunburn or maybe a cut, you need to treat it.
Treat your bruise with ice.

burn (v. / n.)
I just burn.
I have a burn on my leg.

# P131
attach
You need to attach a rope to the climbers.
harnesses
a safety harness
You attach a rope to your harness.
Do you rock climbing?
Do you rock climb?
Jim and I are going rock climbing after work.
Maybe I can go next time.
Don't drop that rock on your toe.
Where can we get climbing things?
You climb up a wall.
I play basketball all the time.
Rock climbing is very popular where I am from.

Do you mean ...?
Do you like climbing?
Do you mean rock climbing?
Do you mean today?
Do you mean $200 a week?
Are you saying ...?
Are you saying dinner today?
Are you saying $200 a week?

Do you know a good ...?
Do you know a good piano teacher?
Do you know a good Chinese restaurant?
Do you know a good bike I can buy?
Do you know a good place to have a run?

hold on to something
And one person holds on to the rope.
Please hold on to this bag for me.
Hold on to your dream and never give up.
You must hold on to the opportunity this time.

# P132
all the way to someplace
You can go all the way to the top.
We walked all the way to the theatre.
They drove all the way to New York.
Our luggage was checked all the way through to our final destination.
The little girl flipped all the way to school.
We went all the way to the top of the mountain.

Rock climbing isn't especially dangerous.
It sounds dangerous.

kind of / kinda
It sounded kind of fun.
She is kind of cute.
It's kind of difficult.
It's kind of cold today.
I'm kinda tired.
She came kinda late this morning.
The movie was kinda long.
Sorry, the music is kind of loud.
The water is kinda hot.

I ... when I was ...
I learned to swim when I was seven.
I read a lot of books when I was in college.
I worked a lot of overtime when I was at that firm.
I played tennis when I was younger.
I started to go running when I was older.
I was very naughty when I was a kid.

# P133
The colors, patterns, and styles of each costume tell a story.
Actors training to play Dan characters spend hours practicing how to walk in these special shoes.
Besides, people's hearts are what matters more than the clothes they wear.

Jingju is one of the oldest forms of theatre in the world.
I'll see you at the theatre after work.
She is interested in theatre very much.

Even though
Even though most Dan characters are performed by females now, performers still wear these shoes.

before
I still have a lot to learn before I can be in a Chinese opera.
You need to go to college before you become a teacher.
We need to finish packing before we can leave for our trip.

If you ... you can ...
If you get there early, you can get better seats.
If you love children, you can work at the school.
If you eat an apple a day, you can keep the doctor away.

# P135
I didn't see you.
cap / hat

need sth to do sth
Do I need a cap to swim in the pool here?
You don't need a cap to swim in the pool here.
You need a credit card to rent a car.
You need a driver's license to drive a car.
You don't need cash to go to college.

After you ... let's ...
After you exercise, let's get some food.
After you finish your homework, let's play.
After you finish your call, let's go out.

sign up for ...
I already called the pool and signed up for lessons.
I want to sign up for a cooking class.
Let's sign up for the summer camp in July.
sign up for a free Skype account.
I believe that I don't need to sign up for an English class in the future.

# P136
He is not very patient.
Alex can take his time and learn slowly.
It's simple!
He has a big fear of spiders.
They can help you face your fears and learn to swim!
pots and pans

We heard the splash when she fell into the pool.
My car was splashed over with mud.

If you don't ... you might ...
If you don't study, you might fail the test.
If you don't sleep, you might get sick.
If you don't buy that car, you might regret it.
If Alex doesn't listen carefully, he might sink.

breathe (v.) 
breath (n.)
He told me to jump in, but I couldn't breathe.
When you breathe, you take a breath.
Breathe! Keep breathing!
Please take a deep breath.

step by step
You can learn step by step and take your time.
You just do it step by step.
You must learn it step by step.

# P137
Dragon Boat Festival
Each team rows a boat.
He or she hits a drum.
These are sticky rice dumplings.
Others have egg or bean paste inside.
Each photograph is pasted down carefully.
He was upset with dishonest officials.
They are delicious.

live
He lived more than 2000 years ago.
She lived to the age of 91.
Patty is living in Florida.
They live a simple life.

the front and back of the boat
front seat / back seat
front row / back row
front page / back page
front door / back door
backdoor
front yard / backyard

They can be ... or ...
They can be hot or cold.
They can be small or large.
They can be sweet or salty.
They can be happy or sad.
They can be tall or short.

# P138
What did I say?
That's impolite in Western culture.
Who said you were rude?
What were you talking about?
Take it from me.
Don't ask that, either.
That's a personal question.
The embarrassed girl turned red.

never
You never ask an older woman her age!
You never touch fire with your hand.
You never speak loudly in a library.
Never ask an older woman her age.
Never force anybody to do what they don't like.

I ... all the time.
I think about vacation all the time.
I worry about my health all the time.
I play basketball all the time.
I'm learning English all the time.

concern
I'm so concerned.
I want to show that.
The recent rise in crime is a matter of considerable public concern.
There is growing concern about violence on television.
I didn't concern myself with politics.

Maybe, maybe not.
Maybe, maybe not. It depends on the weather.
Would you go to the concert?
Maybe, maybe not. It depends on the price of the tickets.
Do you think that's a good idea?
Yes and no.

# P139
being
Have you eaten yet?
He was just being friendly.
Are you just being polite?
I was just being honest.
She was just being at the scene.

try to do ... but ... instead
I try to be friendly but am rude instead.
I tried to help but caused more trouble instead.
I try to save money but spend more instead.
I try to get up early but I sleep in late instead.
I try to eat healthy food but I eat more unhealthy things instead.
I try to be friendly.

have/has been doing ... about ...
You've been reading books about Chinese opera.
You've been taking classes about good manners.
I've been composing songs about my life.

# P141
night (n. / adj.)
Bats are night animals.
I didn't sleep well last night.
Bats are awake at night.
night light
night train
night nurse
night tour
night market

go on a tour
You can go on a tour of the zoo at night.
You can go on a night tour!
go on a trip
go on a date
go on a diet
go on a hike

# P142
be busy doing
They are busy looking for food.
I'm busy setting up the tent.
We were busy preparing for the trip.
I'm busy learning English every day.

Can you ... when ...?
Can you help your mom when she cooks?
Can you play when you finish your homework?
Can you take me home when you finish your work?

get used to sth ...
But then our eyes got used to the dark.
I got used to the noise after a few days.
I'm getting used to the food here.
I've just gotten used to my job at this firm.

# P143
compare A with B
I'm comparing my weather reports with the real weather.
Don't compare your child with other kids.
I'm comparing my bag with yours.

Am I a good friend?
Of course, you are.
Like father, like son! 

seem to be doing ...
But the show seems to be doing very well this year.

I'm not ... about ... at all!
I'm not worried about the reviews at all.
I'm not angry about the noise at all!
I'm not surprised about the news at all!
I'm not excited about the trip at all!

How do you feel about the changes we made to your show?
What did you think about the zoo we visited last summer?
Do you like the song I made for you?
Do you know the woman sitting in the cafe?
I really like the car we saw at the store yesterday.

# P144
so far
The talk show is a big success so far, too.
Only three people have come to the party so far.
I have $5000 in the bank so far.
So far everything is fine.
The book I am reading is good so far.
My job has been good so far.
This exercise program I have been doing is working so far.

You have all the ... a ... needs.
You have all the skills a secretary needs.
You have all the money a person needs.
You have all the experience a teacher needs,
You have all the skills a developer needs.
I have all the stuff going abroad I need.

work review
People are so nervous about the work review.
Please review your homework after you finish.

# P145
* find someone doing something
I found Peter sleeping.
She found Carl taking three of four notebooks from the closet.
We found him doing nothing at home.
She found the cat hiding under her bed.
I found Tony drinking beer at work.

* Is A different from B?
Is taking a pen different from taking a notebook?
Is running different from jogging?
Is talking different from shouting?
Is making cake different from making bread?
Is roller-skating different from ice-skating?
Is swimming different from diving?

* ... didn't ... but ...
I didn't practice, but I still got first place.
I didn't go to the doctor, but I got better anyway.
I didn't ask Benny to sit next to me, but he did anyway.
We didn't order this dish, but they still served anyway.

# P147
* I start ... in ...
I start the class in September.
I start the job in March.
She starts the experiment in October.
You start school in August.
He starts the new job in April.

* When is his last day at LTE TV?
When is your last day of school?
When is your last show on TV?
When is your last game on NBA?
When is your last job in New York City?

* pack
Maybe Alex and I can help Jim pack.
Please pack these books into boxes.
They are busy packing.
a pack of candy / a pack of cookies

# P148
* stressful
Moving is very stressful.

* ... has so many ...
This store has so many toys.
Joe has so many cars.
Bryan has so many sneakers.
Claire has so many instruments.

* one ... at a time.
You can move one box at a time.
Let's just move one box at a time.
Just do one thing at a time.
Let's go one step at a time.

* ... is a hard sth... to ...
LTE TV is a hard place to leave.
It's a hard game to win.
This is a hard book to understand.
This is a really hard decision to make.

I have a big test.
You'll do great.

# P149
* cruise
Cruises sail to many different places.
You can take a cruise.
Did you ever go on a cruise?

* overseas (adv. / adj.)
I plan to study overseas next fall.
He is working overseas.
overseas Chinese
overseas students
an overseas college

* We ... from ... to ...
We ran from school to store.
We drove from Grandma's house to the airport.
We walked from home to the park.

* decide
  decide to do something
  decide on something
I can't decide.
They decide to stay home today.
He decided to bring some salad to the party.
Let's decide on the meeting date.
She decided to take that job.
We haven't decided to go on vacation.
We haven't decided on the vacation date.
I decided on Mexico.
Where did you decide to go?
That's a great choice.

# P150
Even a seat in coach class is expensive!
How much is a ticket for coach?
I hope it hasn't expired.

* will be doing
Will you be ... this ...?
Will you be studying this week?
Will you be traveling this month?
Will you be visiting your customers?
Will you be reading that book?

* n. + to ...
Tickets to Taipei in summer are expensive.
That's the bus to your office.
We are looking for cheap flights to France.
Tickets to the movie are too expensive.
Sauces to the dish are too sweet.

* book (v.)
book a flight
book a hotel

* Canadian
  Canada
Canadians can visit Mexico without a visa.
a Canadian company
a Canadian passport

# P151
* happy to be sth ...
They are happy to be Americans.
I'm happy to be your friend.
I'm happy to be your coworker.
They are happy to be partners.
I'm happy to be your student.
I'm happy to be your partner.
I'm happy to be on your team.
 
* fill ... with ...
Fireworks fill the sky with colors.
Please fill the bottle with water.
He filled my bag with candy.
He filled the frig with beer.
I filled my suitcase with clothes.

* Everyone waits for ...
Everyone waits for the happy couple to cut the cake.
Everyone waits for the fireworks to celebrate and cheer.
Everyone waits for the exam result.

# P153
* for sure
That's for sure.
No one knows for sure.
I can't tell you for sure.
I'll be sweating for sure.

* around the corner
I went to the store around the corner.
The store is right around the corner.
I'm just around the corner.
Summer vacation is around the corner.

* flavor
What is the strangest flavor?
I like cold treats.

* I don't like ... very much.
I don't like hamburgers very much.
I don't like big cities very much.
I don't like this job very much.

# P154
* syrup
pears in syrup
...canned fruit with sugary syrup.
The ice has fruit and sweet syrup on it.

* ice pop (Popsicle)
I have ice pops for everyone!
I especially love banana ice pops.
Do you have any Kleenex?
jeep, zipper, Jacuzzi

* v. + A + more often than + B
I eat ice more often than ice cream.
I eat fruit more often than vegetables.
I read magazines more often than books.
I play basketball more often than football.
I listen to rock music more often than pop. 

* n. + Ven ... : adj. sub-clause
It has candy and other sweet things mixed into the ice cream.
I'd like to have strawberries mixed into my ice cream.
Look at the gift wrapped in red paper.
I'd love to live in my house decorated by myself.
I love this jewelry designed by Claire.

# P155
We want to check that they know the date and time of their interviews.

* I need to ... all of these people before ...
I need to visit all of these people before I go back home.
I need to email all of these people before work ends.
I need to check my schedule before I promise you.

* all of these
I need to call all of these people before 2:00.
I know some of those people.
I didn't see any of them.
She is one of my best friends.
That's part of the game.

* owe someone sth
Thank you so much! I owe you one.
You owe me $500.
You owe him a thank-you.
You owe me an apology.
I owe you a drink.
I owe you a coffee for your help.

# P156
* favor
Can you do me a favor?
Can I ask you for a favor?
Thanks for doing me a favor.
Thanks for the big favor!
Do yourself a favor. Go home and get some sleep.
I have a big favor to ask.
You made my day.

* hurry (v. / n.)
If we hurry, we’ll get there in time.
You'll have to hurry if you want to catch that train.
I'm in a big hurry!
I'm in a hurry to catch the train.
I'm in a hurry to watch the game.
There's no hurry.
I'm in no hurry.
No hurry!

* Here's a ... of ... for you.
Here's a piece of cake for you.
Here's a cup of water for you.
Here's a magazine for you.

# P157
Can you tell us the process that you have to go through in order to write the music for a Song Time song?
The TV department films a video for the song.
Tell me the process of making cookies.
Adjust the light so it's not so bright.

* Have you ever wonder ...?
Have you ever wondered how s Song Time song gets made?
Have you ever wondered how leaves change color in the fall?
Have you ever wondered why you can't sleep well?
Have you ever wondered why you're so poor?

* that's how/why/where/what ...
That is how a song is created!
That is how autumn leaves change color.
That is why you can't sleep well.
That is where she grew up.
That is what you can eat.
That is how the bug is fixed.
That is what he can't understand.

* ... make sure ... when ...
A good baker makes sure to turn the oven off when he's finished baking.
The road worker makes sure people are safe when they cross the road.
The doctor makes sure you have medicine when you finish a checkup.
I told her that she should make sure to close the windows when she left home.

# P159
What car model is that?
Electronics make life easier.
Can the robot fly?
There is a discount on train tickets.

* gadget (n.)
...kitchen gadgets including toasters, kettles, and percolators.
She has invented a nifty little gadget for undoing stubborn nuts and bolts.
We live in a world filled with high-tech gadgets.

* electronics (n.)
  electronic (adj.)
  electric (adj.)
I look at all the new gadgets and electronics.
electronic music
electric guitar
electric piano

* discount
Maybe I can get a discount. You can try!
dishonest, disagree, dislike

* People like to ... here.
People like to watch movies here.
People like to exercise here.
People like to have dinner here.
People like to shop here.

# P160
river tracing
Do you know what river tracing is?
They can tie knots.
You hike up a river.
I did it a few times back home.
I went once last year.
Do we have everything we need?
Do you know how to tie a rope?
We have similar haircuts.
There is a knot in the rope.

* A is similar to B
  A and B are similar
It's similar to hiking.
Your car is similar to mine.
A tiger is similar to a cat in many ways.
River tracing and hiking are similar.
Your car and mine are similar.
His idea is similar to mine.

* I ... once or twice a ...
I swim once or twice a month.
I eat once or twice a day.
I play basketball once or twice a week.
We usually go on a trip once or twice a year.

* cross (v.)
  across (prep.)
You can use it to cross the river.
Let's cross the river by boat.
Do not cross the line.
She walks across the street.
We can swim across the river.
We need to cross the bridge to get there.
I want to hike across the forest.

# P161
It was fun jumping from rock to rock.
They survived their river tracing.
The water was up to his waist.
Put it in a bag of dry rice.
Jane survived the accident.

* In a ... or two, ...
In a week or two, you can go home.
In a month or two, she should be finished.
The phone will be dry in a week or two.
I will quit in a week or two.

* regret doing sth...
I regret putting my phone in my pocket.
I regret buying so much food.
He regrets choosing that school.
I regret taking this job.
I regret going to bed late last night.
I regret it.
I regret not going to the concert.

* from A to A
We jumped from rock to rock in the river.
We traveled from city to city in Europe.
She jumped from job to job.
She sang from song to song.
We went from shop to shop.
I talked from person to person at the party.

# P162
Don't feed them for people.
Let's talk about pet care.
Why can't pet eat food for people?
Think about the cost.

* veterinarian
I'm a veterinarian.
Consult your veterinarian if your cat is still not eating.

* howl (v.)
The dogs howled all night.
I haven't heard wolves howling for a long time.
bowl, doll, towel, owl

* How do you choose ...?
How do you choose a good restaurant?
How do you choose a cellphone?
How do you choose a job?
How do you choose a pet?

* alone (adj.) 
  along (adv.)
They don't like to be alone.
She was alone at home.
I like to listen to music when I am alone.
I don't like to be alone all the time.
I walked along the river.
Look at the trees along the road.
We were jogging along the street.
Matt is alone, no one is around.

# P163
Someday I'll get one.
What makes a good pet?

* that
I don't have that much time. (adv.)
That is my pen. (pron.)
That movie is so interesting. (adj.)
It's not that easy. (adv.)
I didn't know he was that tall.

* don't have time for sth...
  don't have time to do sth ...
I don't have time for one now.
I don't have time for lunch.
She doesn't have time for exercise.
We don't have enough time for a movie.
I didn't have time to call you today.
They didn't have time to rest.
We didn't have time to search.

* Why don't you do ...?
Why don't you eat your food?
Why don't you do your homework?
Why don't you use your phone?
Why don't you get a new job?
Why don't you buy that car?

# P165
Sometimes I practice twice a day.
So how can people learn tennis?
No. Not any more.
And you teach other people about tennis, too!
How do I hit the ball?
Swing the bat at the ball.
swing-swung-swung
top tier
tournament

* They ... so well!
They dance so well!
They sing so well!
He drives so well!
He studies so well!
She cooks so well!

* in ... way
They can swing their rackets in many different ways.
Please say it in a polite way.
I can do it in an easier way.
Let's lose weight in a healthy way.
I can solve that bug in a simple way.
Can you implement that project in another way?
He drives the car in a careful way.
You can use English in many different ways.

* match (n.)
Tennis matches are so much fun.
We beat them in the match.
The tie and the shirt are a good match.
The barbeque and the beer are a good match.
We need matches to make fire.
I didn't remember to take matches.

# P166
Watch the ball bounce quickly on the court.
There's a big tennis tournament!
Look! The ball didn't bounce inside the white lines.
How many times can you bounce the ball?
Rogers almost lost.

* more than
There's more than one match.
She is more than a pretty girl.
They are more than just friends.
We are more than just partners.
Learning English is more than learning words.
We know that a tournament is more than one match.

* Many ... will be there.
Many important people will be there.
Many smart students will be there.
Many talented drivers will be there.

* that means
That means Rogers gets a point.
That means you missed the train.
That means you're going to be a big brother!
That means many people are going to lose their jobs.
That means I'm going abroad.
That means you're going to work overtime.

# P167
Neal stared at his phone.
I don't wish the partner minds that I sing when I take a shower.
Jesse wouldn't talk to or answer Neal's phone calls for over a week.
He won't talk to Neal at all.
But he didn't know what he could do to fix this problem.
Should he give Jesse a gift or do something nice for him?

* have/has/had + done
Jesse had texted.
had given
Our friendship has lasted ten years!

* text (n. / v.)
He had missed a lot of texts and calls.
I sent you a text yesterday.
Did you see the text?
I'll text you!
I think you text too much.

* Someone felt terrible about doing sth
Neal felt terrible about making the wrong choice.
I felt terrible about laughing at him.
I felt terrible about myself.
I felt terrible about working overtime.

* ... again and again, but it didn't ...
I tried again and again, but it didn't work.
Bill read the email again and again, but it didn't make sense.
We tried to solve this problem again and again, but it didn't fix it.

# P168
You can't see the subject.
That's a great way to improve.

* but, though, although
although: formal
but: casual
though: middle.

She takes pictures on her phone, though.
I take them on my phone, though.
I don't run for exercise, I do walk a lot, though.
Though I don't run for exercise, I do walk a lot.
Oranges are good. Apples aren't, though.

I ate dinner an hour ago, but I’m still hungry.
I ate dinner an hour ago. I’m still hungry though.
Although I ate dinner an hour ago, I’m still hungry.

My friend has studied Spanish for two years, but he can’t speak very well.
My friend has studied Spanish for two years. He can’t speak very well though.
Although my friend has studied Spanish for two years, he can’t speak very well.

* I went doing... in the ...
I went walking in the park.
I went running in the afternoon.
I went hiking in the mountains.
I went singing with my coworkers.
They went swimming in the lake.
They went walking in the rain.

* To be a good ... you need to ...
To be a good photographer, you need to take a lot of pictures.
To be a good athlete, you need to practice a lot.
To be a good leader you need to be a good listener.
To be a good programmer, you need to handle a lot of computer skills.

* frame (n. / v.)
Fill the frame with your subject.
Think about how to frame it.
I like the style of the window frame.

# P169
But it's not really my hobby.
No, not really.
I'm going to try to take a picture of it with my phone.
It's pretty far away.

* into the air
But I did get a good picture of one guy jumping into the air.
The bird flies into the air.
I can spray it into the air.

* are getting into ...
Alex is getting into photography.
I'm getting into music.
Are you getting into writing?

* in the distance
What's that over there in the distance?
I saw Jessie yesterday in the distance.
I could hear her in the distance.
I couldn't see him in the distance.
The enemy could shot us in the distance.

* I don't ... too many ...
I don't have too many friends.
I don't read too many books.
I don't try too many new things.
I don't have too much time.
I don't compose too many songs.
I don't like too many people.

# P171
shelf
library shelves
Is the book exciting?
We're lucky.
How unlucky.
Mom reads me a story every night.

* Did you buy the ...?
Did you buy the magazine?
Did you buy the car?
Did you buy the book?
Did you buy the house?

* borrow A from B
  lend A to B
I borrowed it from the public library.
I borrowed this bike from Henry.
She borrowed this microphone from me.
You can borrow some magazines from me.
Henry lent this bike to me.
I can lend some magazines to you.
I don't want to lend this book to you.
I borrowed the car from Claire.

* copy (v. / n.)
Maybe you can borrow a copy.
The library has two copies of the book.
How many copies did you buy?

# P172
He did request a book.
I borrowed it yesterday.
Can you request a certain book?
Even if we don't speak France!
Peter requested a bigger office.

* Many ... provide ...
Many libraries provide classes.
Many pools provide swimming lessons.
Many schools provide after-school programs.
Steve provided the food for the party.

* ... and many more
There are language classes, computer classes and many more.
I've been to Italy, France, China and many more.
There are guitars, keyboards, drums, and many more.
I can play basketball, football, tennis and many more.

* in
They have books and DVDs in different languages.
Please introduce yourself in English.
The movie is in Japanese.
I can say "Happy Birthday!" in English, German and Korean.

# P173
Don't leave without your badge.
Look for it in the place for your old papers.
The next note was there waiting for him.
I was really getting into this mystery.
Where do you put all these things?
Mr. F ran to his desk.
Mr. E started clapping from his desk.
Wrong again.
I thought so.
The refrigerator isn't getting cold.
Don't clap until the music is done.
hide-hid-hidden

* ... was ready to ...
The dog was ready to go outside.
The student was ready to take the test.
I am ready to go abroad to work.
I was ready to travel.
I was ready to study.
We are ready to race.

* put on
  take off
  put-put-put
He put on his jacket.
put on your glasses
Do you want to take off your coat?
Please take off your glasses.

* go (put)
Where does your coffee cup go?
Where does this box go?
Where do the keys go?
Where does your frig go?
Where does your money go? (bank)
It's not in the file cabinet where old papers go.

# P174
Maybe you won't have electricity.
There were a lot of storms lately.
So, how dangerous are storms?
Floods can also damage buildings.
Strong winds can blow down trees onto houses and roads.
Stay inside a strong building.
first aid kits

* in fact
In fact, we're getting another big storm tomorrow night!
In fact, we are taking a trip to Africa soon.
In fact, I won't be here when you're back.
In fact, I really don't like working in this company.

* if you ... now, you can ...
If you prepare, you can prevent many accidents.
If the lightning hits something, it can catch on fire.
But if you work now, you can play later.
But if you sleep now, you can feel better.
If you hurry, you can catch the train.
If you work hard, you can get more money.
If it's very windy, put boards on your windows.

* be prepared to do sth...
Be prepared to have no electricity.
Keep flashlights with you.
Be prepared to answer five questions.
Be prepared to cook for yourself.
Be prepared to be your best.
Be prepared to solve this problem by yourself.
He can feel prepared.
It's important to be prepared.

# P175 
# HOME: A Thunderstorm Is Coming!
* keywords: thunder, shake, basement, power, candle

* Q:
Did you hear about the thunderstorm that's coming?
Should I hide in my basement?
How can I prepare?
Are you ready for the storm, Susie?
How do you usually prepare for a storm?

* be (not) used to sth ...
I'm not used to storms in America.
I'm used to getting up early.
I'm used to big storms now.
I'm still not used to working overtime.

* during
Maybe during a tornado.
Going to the store can be difficult during a big storm.

* in case (conj.)
  just in case
  in case of ...
I have candles in case the power goes out!
Write it down in case you forget.
Take an umbrella, in case it rains.
He had his camera ready, just in case he saw something that would make a good picture.
You'd better take the keys in case I'm out.
In case of fire, ring the alarm bell.
I have an extra cool hat in case you want to wear it.
I have a camera in case we want to take some pictures.
I have a fan in case it gets too hot.

* go out
  cut
I have candles in case the power goes out!
There was a power cut.
The fire is going out.
The candles went out and she was scared.

# P177
# HOBBIES: What do you collect?
* keywords: collect(collection), baseball, trade, valuable, case 
* Q: 
What are those?
Do you collect baseball cards?
What do you collect?
What card is that?
What's your favorite card?
Do you collect something? If so, what?

* trade A for B
I traded five other cards for his card!
I can trade ten eggs for the fish.
Can I trade this book for yours?
I want to trade my sneakers for yours.
Do you want to trade your lunch for mine?

* Don't you want to ... for a while?
Don't you want to rest at home for a while?
Don't you want to talk about your trip for a while?
Don't you want to listen to music for a while?
Don't you want to study tonight?
Don't you want to try?

* put sth... away
I'm putting my cards away.
Let me put all the books away.
Can you put your toys away?
You should put these tools away.
I'll put my clothes away.

# P178
# HOBBIES: What do you collect?
* keywords: stamp, collection, ink, blank, remind, exactly
* Q:
Is it for these stamps?
Who's that man?
Do you collect anything, Taylor?
What do you mean?

* He has been doing ... his whole life!
He's been collecting stamps his whole life!
He's been teaching his whole life!
He's been traveling around Europe his whole life!
I've been learning all kinds of skills my whole life!
I've been composing songs my whole life!

* You mean the kind + adj. clause
You mean the kind you use to mail a letter?
You mean the kind you use to cut hair?
You mean the man we met yesterday?
You mean the car we saw at the auto show?
She means the song I made for her.

* remind someone of something
  remind someone to do sth
They remind me of all my trips.
You remind me of my friend Jenny.
This cake reminds me of my grandmother.
This song reminds me of my childhood.
Remind me to buy milk tonight.
Remind me to get keys.

# P179
# WORK: Summer Jobs
* keywords: however, experience, reason, earn, interest(v./n.)
* Q:
Tell us about your job.
What kinds of people?
What kind of jobs do you find for people?
What are some other good reasons to have a summer job?

* have (invite)
Thanks for having me.
We want to have some guests for tomorrow.
We are happy to have you.
Can we have Mr. Kim on the show?
We can have a singer coming to our party.

* I usually do ... with ...
I usually work with students.
I usually sit with Jane.
I usually eat lunch with Mom.
I usually sing songs with Claire.

* There is a ... for every ...
There is a summer job for every interest.
There is a job for every student.
There is something for everyone.
There is a toy for every kid.

# P180
# WORK: Summer Jobs
* keywords: waitress, large, clean, babysitter, tutor
* Q:
Can I help you?
Can I get a large coffee?
Are you new at the Jungle Cafe?
What did you do?
Were you a waitress?
What do you do?
Did you have a summer job in college, Rob?
That's pretty neat.
How does someone apply for a job?
Is that the last step before getting a job?

* I ... next door ...
I live next door to the movie theater.
I work next door at the library.
I work next door to the boss's office.
She works next door to our company.

* One ...
One summer I worked at a restaurant.
One evening we heard a strange sound.
One day he came to my office.
One morning I got up early to play basketball.

* sound like
  sound + adj.
That sounds like a fun summer job.
That sounds like an interesting movie.
She sounds like a smart lady.
It sounds like a good idea.
It sounds interesting.
It sounds difficult.
She sounds smart.

# P181
# NEWS: Celebrating Fathers
* keywords: gift, special, decision, succeed(v.), encourage(v.)
* Q:
How do people celebrate Father's Day?
Why is there a special day for fathers?

* believe in
  believe
Good fathers believe in their children.
I believe in you.
I believe in God.
I don't believe in ghosts.
You shouldn’t believe everything you read.
I didn't believe her.

* sth + happen to + someone
They are glad when good things happen to their children.
A funny thing happened to me yesterday.
It never happened to me.
What happened to you?
It must be something that happened to her.

* How do people ...?
How do people eat with these things?
How do people drive in this city?
How do people eat noodles in your country?
How do people eat noodles with chopsticks?
How do people comment about his success?
How do people get a job in your country?

# P183
# 

* keywords:


*


# P184
# 

* keywords:


*